

--- Page 1 ---
Agent-Memory Protocol: A Privacy-Focused Protocol for LLM Agents and User
Memory Interaction
Junde Wu, Minhao Hu, Jiayuan Zhu, Jiaye Wang, Yueming Jin
University of Oxford, University of California San Diego, National University of Singapore
Abstract
Large-Language Model (LLM) based agents are rapidly mi-
grating from stateless chat systems to persistent, longitudinal
assistants. Nowhere is this transition more sensitive than in
fields like medicine and finance, where context accumulates
across months of interactions containing personally identi-
fiable or confidential information. Existing memory and re-
trieval architectures of agents focus on efficiency or reasoning
quality but remain indifferent to privacy: prompts, retrieval
results, and cached traces leak explicit identifiers to third-
party infrastructure. We introduce theAgent-Memory Pro-
tocol (AMP), a privacy-first protocol for LLM Agents and
User Memory Interaction. AMP enforces confidentiality at
the boundary where language meets computation. It defines
three deterministic operations—redact at rest,pack for pur-
pose, andhydrate on return, that together guarantee that no
personal identifier ever leaves the user boundary while main-
taining the reasoning utility of long-term memory. We for-
malize its protocol and illustrate its operation in multi-turn
use-cases spanning medicine and finance, including radiol-
ogy follow-up, discharge planning, and portfolio manage-
ment.
Introduction
The recent rise of LLM-driven agents has transformed static
chatbots into dynamic collaborators that can plan tasks,
write code, analyze data, and manage workflows (Wu et al.
2025a, 2024, 2025b). Coding agents, research assistants,
and personal copilots now execute multi-step reasoning and
act across tools, APIs, and files—often outperforming iso-
lated human operators in efficiency and consistency. As
these agents mature, the next step ispersonalization: con-
necting them to a user’s long-term memory so that ev-
ery interaction is contextualized by prior actions, prefer-
ences, and history (Wu et al. 2025b; Sun et al. 2025). The
recent rise of LLM-driven agents has transformed static
chatbots into dynamic collaborators that can plan tasks,
write code, analyze data, and manage workflow (Wu et al.
2025a, 2024, 2025b)s [cite agentic(Wu et al. 2025a, 2024,
2025b)reasoning, medical graph rag, git context c(Wu et al.
2025a, 2024, 2025b)ontroller]. Coding agents, research as-
sistants, and personal copilots now execute multi-step rea-
soning and act across tools, APIs, and files—often outper-
forming isolated human operators in efficiency and consis-
tency. As these agents mature, the next step ispersonaliza-
tion: connecting them to a user’s long-term memory so that
every interaction is contextualized by prior actions, prefer-
ences, and history [cite git context controller, and context
fold].
Such agent–memory coupling unlocks powerful continu-
ity—an assistant that recalls prior code refactorings, a fi-
nancial planner that tracks investment patterns, or a clini-
cal aide that remembers medication adjustments(Wu et al.
2025a, 2024, 2025b). Yet this evolution introduces an urgent
challenge: there is currently no unified, privacy-preserving
protocol governing how agents read, write, and reason over
user memory. Ad-hoc implementations risk leaking person-
ally identifiable or confidential data during prompt construc-
tion, retrieval, or logging. In many cases, the agent must
connectto the user’s memory to provide continuity and per-
sonalization, while ensuring that sensitive information never
leaves the user boundary. This tension—between reasoning
utility and privacy preservation—motivates the need for a
principled communication framework.
To address this challenge, we introduce theAgent-to-
Memory Protocol (AMP), a language-level interface that
governs how agents read from, write to, and reason over user
memory without exposing identifiers. AMP formalizes the
boundary where symbolic reasoning meets private context,
ensuring that no personally identifiable information (PII) tra-
verses the model boundary.
AMP defines three deterministic operations—APPEND,
PACK, and HYDRATEthat together decouple reasoning from
sensitive data. APPENDredacts confidential spans at rest,
storing only placeholder-linked semantic cards. PACKas-
sembles redacted narratives relevant to the current task for
model inference, while HYDRATElocally re-personalizes
the model’s symbolic output. By enforcing this redac-
tion–hydration boundary, AMP allows agents to maintain
long-term coherence and personalization while provably
minimizing information leakage at the language level.
On the other hand, in practice, modern agents must
reason over long-lived personal histories—email threads,
transaction logs, or clinical notes—whose content often
includes sensitive identifiers. Conventional systems con-
catenate such plaintext snippets into prompts transmitted
to external models, exposing confidential details during
every inference cycle. AMP additionally abstracts these
identifiers into typed placeholders (e.g.,$ENT:PERSON,

--- Page 2 ---
$ENT:ACCOUNT), transmitting only the redacted seman-
tic narrative. The model then reasons entirely on symbolic
context—learning structure, intent, and causality—while re-
personalization occurs locally at the memory boundary. This
abstraction preserves reasoning fidelity while guaranteeing
that no personal data ever leaves the user’s device or trust
boundary.
AMP establishes a new privacy substrate for memory-
augmented agents. It elevates data protection from
infrastructure-level encryption to the linguistic level, ensur-
ing that privacy holds even when the model or transport layer
is compromised. The protocol enables scalable personaliza-
tion—agents that adapt across sessions, domains, and iden-
tities—without accumulating exposure risk. By standardiz-
ing how agents communicate with memory, AMP offers a
foundation for interoperable, privacy-preserving ecosystems
spanning healthcare, finance, education, and enterprise set-
tings, where continuity and confidentiality are both essential.
Background and Related Work
Memory Architectures for LLM Agents
Memory in modern agents ranges from short-term recurrent
buffers to long-term vector databases. Frameworks such as
MemGPT (Xu et al. 2024), ReAct (Yao et al. 2023), and
LangGraph (LangChain AI 2024) model memory as key-
value stores or task-specific nodes. They enhance context
recall but remain linguistically transparent: retrieved snip-
pets appear verbatim in prompts. Recent compression and
summarization methods such as Memorizing Transformers
(Liu et al. 2023), Reflection Memory (Shinn et al. 2024),
and Self-RAG (Asai et al. 2024) encode histories into dense
representations, improving token efficiency but not privacy.
Our work builds on this lineage by introducing an explicit
redaction–hydration boundary between memory and model,
achieving reasoning continuity without exposing identifiers.
Confidential and Cryptographic Inference
Cloud providers now offerconfidential GPUsandtrusted ex-
ecution environments(TEEs) (Apple Inc. 2024; Intel Corpo-
ration 2023). These prevent operators from reading plaintext
inside enclaves, yet the model itself still processes identifiers
in cleartext. Fully Homomorphic Encryption (FHE) (Cheon
et al. 2020) and Secure Multi-party Computation (MPC)
(Yao 1982) theoretically conceal even from the model but
remain orders of magnitude slower. Recent works such as
Privacy-preserving RAG (Li et al. 2024) and ShieldLLM
(Choi et al. 2024) explore selective encryption at retrieval-
time, yet inference-time tokens still leak user data. AMP
complements these approaches by reducing the plaintext
surface: even if the enclave or model were compromised,
no identifiers are ever present in transmitted text.
Anonymization and Redaction
Traditional anonymization replaces identifiers in static cor-
pora (Neves et al. 2022; Dernoncourt et al. 2017; Uzuner,
Luo, and Szolovits 2008). However, in dialogue mem-
ory, entities recur and must remain referentially stable. A
naive random mask would break longitudinal reasoning
(“the same doctor as last visit”). To address this, crypto-
graphic pseudonymization techniques such as SHA-based
or HMAC-based entity hashing (Rathee, Goyal, and Ahuja
2023; Kim, Park, and Cho 2024) preserve entity consis-
tency while concealing raw values. AMP adopts determin-
istic cryptographic placeholders that preserve identity rela-
tions across time without exposing sensitive values.
Current Protocols for Agents
Recent standardization efforts have begun to define agent
communication protocols such as the Model Context Proto-
col (MCP) (Anthropic 2024) and the Agent-to-Agent (A2A)
transport layer (OpenAI 2024). MCP specifies structured
JSON-based message schemas for external tool and mem-
ory access, but it assumes plaintext transport of content.
A2A enables multi-agent collaboration through authenti-
cated channels, but does not regulate how identifiers are
represented or redacted. Our AMP can thus be viewed
as a complementary privacy layer that sits atop MCP or
A2A—introducing language-level confidentiality while pre-
serving interoperability.
Problem Setting
Formally, letM t denote the memory state aftertinterac-
tions, and letΦ t be the textual context transmitted to an ex-
ternal model for reasoning. We desire thatΦ t maximizes
task utilityU(Φ t)while minimizing mutual information
with personally identifiable stringsS:
max
Φt
U(Φ t)s.t.I(Φ t;S)≈0.
Existing architectures maximize utility but treatI(Φ t;S)as
negligible or unavoidable; AMP insteadminimizesthis term
by construction through explicit redaction and controlled hy-
dration.
In personalized agent settings, the assistant’s memory
behaves like ashadow profile: it accumulates notes, sum-
maries, preferences, and instructions over time. Each inter-
actionu i contains two separable components:
ui = (ci, si),
wherec i denotes task-relevant content (e.g., “update the
spreadsheet,” “reschedule the meeting”), ands i denotes
identifying attributes (e.g., names, account numbers, email
addresses).
A safe memory system must (1) preserve longitudinal co-
herence across the content streamc i, and (2) ensure that no
identifying elements i ever leaves the user’s device.
Formally, letLdenote the remote model’s language dis-
tribution conditioned on promptΦ. We require that for any
adversary observingΦorL(Φ), the posterior overSsatis-
fies:
P(S|Φ,L(Φ)) =P(S),
meaning the model’s input and output leak no information
about identifiers. AMP enforces this by ensuring thatΦcon-
tains only deterministic, symbolic placeholders that are in-
dependent ofS.

--- Page 3 ---
Design Goals
We distill four non-negotiable requirements:
Privacy completeness.Every identifier must be sanitized
before storage; inference should never touch plaintext.
Referential stability.A placeholder must consistently re-
fer to the same entity across time, so reasoning chains re-
main coherent.
Semantic sufficiency.Redaction must preserve enough
linguistic structure for the model to reason correctly.
Modular deployability.The protocol should operate on
commodity hardware and compose with confidential infer-
ence or cryptographic schemes without modification.
Agent–Memory Natural-Language Protocol
(AMP)
AMP defines an interface between anAgent(A) and a pri-
vateMemory(M). M stores redacted NL cards derived from
all prior chat turns. A communicates with M through three
message types:APPEND,PACK, andHYDRATE. All mes-
sages are JSON over mTLS or a local socket. Each message
carries a timestamp, nonce, and Ed25519 signature to ensure
integrity.
Placeholder Semantics
Given a confidential spanv(e.g., “Alice Smith”), the mem-
ory computes:
token(v) =HMAC(K user,canonical(v))[: 10],
yielding a deterministic ten-byte identifier. The placeholder
inserted into the text is:
$EN T:TYPE:token(v).
A local sidecar map maintains the binding between to-
ken and real value. Type categories follow PHI taxonomy:
PERSON,EMAIL,PHONE,DATE,ORG,DOC, etc. This de-
sign achieves referential stability and constant-time hydra-
tion.
(1) APPEND: Redact at Rest
Whenever a new utterance arrives, A sends:
1{
2"type": "APPEND",
3"body": {
4"turns": [
5{
6"role": "user",
7"text": "Transfer 94,250 from my
savings to the joint account
I share with Emma Li, and
update the notes about my
chronic back issue for the
insurance claim."
8}
9],
10"distill": true
11}
12}
M performs entity detection using a local NER tuned for
PII and applies placeholders:
“User requested to transfer $ENT:AMOUNT:3f81
from $ENT:ACCOUNT:a17c shared with
$ENT:PERSON:7f3a, and to update notes re-
garding $ENT:CONDITION:c82e for an insurance
claim.”
This “NL card” is stored directly. No plaintext identifiers
ever persist in storage; even backups remain redacted. De-
terministic placeholders allow later correlation: if the same
account, person, or condition appears again, the same token
is reused.
Most privacy leaks occur not from live queries but from
historical logs and cached plaintext. By redacting at write-
time, AMP eliminates such residual risk.
(2) PACK: Pack for Purpose
For any new taskT, the agent requests from memory a
token-budgeted narrative relevant toT:
1{
2"type": "PACK",
3"body": {
4"task": "draft_reschedule_email",
5"question": "Help me reschedule MRI
with my doctor next week.",
6"time_window_days": 60,
7"token_budget": 800,
8"style": "bulleted"
9}
10}
M selects cards using vector similarity between the query
and stored embeddings of redacted text, then compresses
and formats the result. An example response:
- Profile: prefers concise tone.
- Last interaction ($ENT:DATE:91c2):
requested imaging reschedule.
- Physician: $ENT:PERSON:7f3a
(role=cardiologist, specialty=imaging).
- Constraint: mornings Tue/Thu
preferred.
- Document: attach prior report
$ENT:DOC:rep mri 2023.
The response includes a pointersidecar reffor hy-
dration. This pack is inserted directly into the LLM prompt,
e.g.:
“Using the memory pack below, draft a professional email.
Preserve placeholders. Return JSON with{subject, body,
actions}. ”
Retrieving raw cards would exceed token limits and risk
oversharing; compression into a single narrative both im-
proves reasoning quality and constrains exposure. Because
the pack is already redacted, it can safely traverse any exter-
nal model or cloud boundary.
(3) HYDRATE: Hydrate on Return
After inference, A obtains a symbolic result such as:
1{
2"subject": "Request to Reschedule
Imaging Appointment",
3"body": "Dear ${ENT:PERSON:7f3a}, could
we move to ${ENT:DATE:91c2}?
Regards.",

--- Page 4 ---
4"actions": [
5{"type": "send_email", "to": "${ENT:
EMAIL:12ab}"}
6]
7}
A then calls:
1{
2"type": "HYDRATE",
3"body": {
4"sidecar_ref": "sc_5e1c",
5"payload": { ... }
6}
7}
M substitutes real values:
“Dear Dr. Alice Smith, could we move to 2025-11-
03?”
and populates action parameters (recipient email, attach-
ment path). Execution (e.g., sending mail) occurs locally.
The LLM never observes these values.
Hydration finalizes personalization while maintaining a
clean separation of reasoning (symbolic) and identity (lo-
cal). If future legal audits demand proof of non-exposure,
logs of packs and placeholders provide verifiable evidence..
Protocol Transport and Secure Handshake
Thus far, we have described AMP’s logical semantics—the
redaction, packing, and hydration of natural-language mem-
ory. We now specify itstransport layer: how an agent and
its private memory establish a secure communication chan-
nel, authenticate each other, and exchange symbolic data in
a way that guarantees privacy, integrity, and non-repudiation
even in multi-agent settings.
Design Principles
AMP transport design follows four guiding principles:
1.Language-first, cryptography-backed.Every transmit-
ted payload remains pure natural language or JSON con-
taining placeholders; cryptography secures only trans-
port metadata, never the reasoning content.
2.Mutual authentication.Both agent and memory end-
points must verify each other before sharing packs. Un-
like typical client–server models, each endpoint can act
as initiator or responder, reflecting the peer nature of
memory–agent communication.
3.Stateless verifiability.Each message carries a detached
signature and nonce so that the session can be verified
independently without persistent sockets—important for
intermittent on-device agents.
4.Composable security.The handshake aligns with exist-
ing protocols such as A2A (Agent-to-Agent) and MCP
(Model Context Protocol) so that AMP sessions can tun-
nel through them without modification.
Connection Setup: the AMP Handshake
The handshake is a short authenticated exchange establish-
ing a shared symmetric session keyK s used to protect mes-
sage envelopes. The process resembles an mTLS handshake
but adds explicit semantic negotiation.
Step 0: Key material.Each side holds a long-term
Ed25519 key pair:
(sk A,pk A),(sk M ,pk M)
for Agent A and Memory M respectively. Public keys are
stored in the user’s local identity store.
Step 1: Agent Hello.The agent initiates:
1POST /amnp/hello
2{
3"msg_type":"HELLO",
4"agent_pub": pk_A,
5"supported_versions":["amnp-0.1","amnp
-0.2"],
6"capabilities":["pack","hydrate","
stream"],
7"nonce_A": random_128bit()
8}
The message is signed bysk A and optionally tunneled over
HTTPS.
Step 2: Memory Hello–Ack.Upon receipt, M verifies the
signature, generates its own nonce, and replies:
1{
2"msg_type":"HELLO_ACK",
3"memory_pub": pk_M,
4"accepted_version":"amnp-0.1",
5"memory_policy_hash": SHA256(policy.
yaml),
6"nonce_M": random_128bit(),
7"nonce_Ack": nonce_A
8}
This step confirms policy compatibility and echoes the
agent’s nonce to prove freshness.
Step 3: Ephemeral key exchange.Both sides compute an
ephemeral Diffie–Hellman key:
Ks = X25519(skephemeral
A , pkephemeral
M )
The derived symmetric keyK s encrypts subsequent mes-
sages using AES-GCM. All AMP envelopes henceforth in-
clude:
1{
2"ciphertext": AESGCM_Encrypt(K_s,
payload, nonce),
3"auth": HMAC(K_s, headers)
4}
Step 4: Policy negotiation and attestation.Memory ad-
vertises its local redaction policy (hash and optional attesta-
tion blob). Agent validates that policy hash matches a trusted
profile—e.g., “phi-policy-v2” certified by the vendor. If ver-
ified, the channel is consideredsemantically trustworthy: the
agent can assume all redaction is performed locally and that
no plaintext identifiers exist on M’s side.
Step 5: Session establishment.The handshake concludes
with both parties storing:
session= (id, K s, texpiry,policy hash)
The session expires after a fixed lifetime or message-count
threshold, as specified by the negotiated policy. Subsequent
APPEND,PACK, andHYDRATEmessages reuse this key un-
til renewal.

--- Page 5 ---
Message Envelope Format
Every AMP payload is transported as a self-verifying enve-
lope:
1{
2"header":{
3"version":"amnp-0.1",
4"session_id":"uuid",
5"seq": 42,
6"timestamp": "2025-10-31T03:12:00Z"
7},
8"body_enc": "<ciphertext>",
9"sig_agent": "Ed25519(pk_A, header ||
body_enc)",
10"sig_memory": "Ed25519(pk_M, header ||
body_enc)"
11}
Dual signatures allow offline audit: the user can later
prove both sides agreed on every message without storing
plaintext.
Handshake over Multi-Agent Networks
When the agent participates in a broader A2A network, each
downstream agent reuses the existing AMP session through
delegation tokens. Suppose Agent A (scheduler) and Agent
B (billing) communicate via A2A; A never sharesK s di-
rectly. Instead, it issues a limited-scope token signed byskA:
1{
2"delegation":{
3"scope":"read-pack",
4"expires":"2025-11-01T00:00Z",
5"pack_ref":"pk_09af"
6},
7"sig_agent": "..."
8}
Agent B can request a redacted view of the same pack
from memory but cannot hydrate placeholders.
This separation ensures cross-agent collaboration remains
privacy-preserving. If connectivity fails mid-transaction,
messages remain replay-safe because every request carries
a monotonically increasing sequence number and a nonce,
allowing memory to ignore duplicates without ambiguity.
Should the agent crash during hydration, the partially con-
structed symbolic result remains encrypted on disk and is
inaccessible until the user re-authenticates, ensuring that in-
terruptions never expose plaintext or alter semantic consis-
tency. After session establishment, all agent–memory com-
munication—including appending new cards, constructing
packs, and hydrating outputs—flows exclusively through au-
thenticated, encrypted envelopes. Even if a network adver-
sary intercepts packets, each message consists solely of ci-
phertext derived from already-redacted placeholders, pre-
venting leakage of identifiers at the linguistic layer. The
combination of semantic privacy (no identifiers ever cross
the boundary) and transport privacy (no readable text is
transmitted) yields a two-layer protection model that pro-
vides defense-in-depth comparable to end-to-end encrypted
messengers, but tailored specifically for language-based
agents where symbolic context and redacted semantics must
remain stable across turns.
Implementation Details
AMP is designed for real deployments on commodity hard-
ware, where both the agent and memory must operate re-
liably across heterogeneous devices and connectivity condi-
tions. Our reference implementation demonstrates that AMP
can run on desktops, mobile devices, and hybrid cloud-
assisted setups without specialized hardware.
Local-first transport.On desktop and laptop systems,
the agent and memory typically coexist on the same host.
All preprocessing—including NER, placeholder generation,
signature verification, and hydration—runs locally. Named-
entity recognition uses a spacy model fine-tuned on de-
identified corpora (0.97 F1 on PHI tags). Placeholder gen-
eration employs HMAC-SHA256 with per-user secret keys
derived from the OS keychain, and the sidecar map is main-
tained in encrypted SQLite with field-level AES-256-GCM
encryption. Communication between the agent and mem-
ory occurs over a lightweight local HTTP or Unix-socket
service providing three endpoints:/append,/pack, and
/hydrate. Each request carries a signed nonce to prevent
replay attacks. Streaming hydration supports token-wise re-
personalization for interactive chat UIs.
Cloud-assisted mode.On mobile devices with con-
strained compute or storage, AMP supports a hybrid mode
where redaction and hydration remain on-device while en-
crypted memory persistence resides in a user-controlled
cloud container. The AMP handshake doubles as explicit
consent for each session: the user cryptographically ap-
proves the initiation of a new symbolic context stream.
All transmitted payloads remain ciphertext containing only
redacted placeholders, ensuring that cloud storage never ob-
serves identifiers.
Embedding and retrieval.PACK generation uses
Sentence-BERT embeddings over redacted text, ensuring
semantic clustering is unaffected by removed identifiers.
Compression uses a lightweight local summarizer (1.3B
parameters), keeping the process fully on-device. In typical
workflows, pack construction completes in<50ms and
hydration in<10ms on an Apple M2 CPU. Placeholder
length increases storage by only7.3%, and retrieval
overhead remains negligible.
Integration with multi-agent orchestration.AMP ex-
poses MCP-compliant schema descriptors:
1memory.pack -> schema: MemoryPack,
content_type: text/redacted
2memory.hydrate -> schema:
HydrationResult
These descriptors allow external tools or LLM-based ser-
vices to request task-specific context packs without ac-
cessing raw identifiers. When used within Agent-to-Agent
(A2A) networks, AMP’sPACKandHYDRATEverbs can
be advertised as capabilities, enabling multi-agent collab-
oration under privacy constraints. Downstream agents re-
ceive only symbolic placeholders and can operate entirely
on redacted semantics; hydration occurs solely on the user’s
trusted endpoint.

--- Page 6 ---
Failure safety and robustness.If connectivity fails mid-
transaction, all messages remain replay-safe via monotonic
sequence numbers and nonces. If an agent crashes during
hydration, the partially reconstructed symbolic output stays
encrypted on disk until the user re-authenticates. Because
every transmitted message is an authenticated, encrypted en-
velope containing only redacted text, even full packet cap-
ture cannot reveal identifiers.
End-to-end privacy in deployment.Together, these
mechanisms provide two layers of protection:semantic
privacy(identifiers never cross the model boundary) and
transport privacy(no readable text is ever transmitted).
The result is defense-in-depth comparable to end-to-end
encrypted messengers, but specialized for language-based
agents where symbolic context and redacted semantics must
remain stable across turns.
AMP’s deployment model therefore scales from local
applications to multi-agent ecosystems while preserving
linguistic confidentiality throughout the entire reasoning
pipeline.
Case Study 1: Radiology Rescheduling
To concretize AMP’s dynamics, we now trace an end-to-end
scenario from a realistic radiology workflow. Unlike prior
examples with a single prompt, this walkthrough captures
the full lifecycle of memory–agent interaction, including
multi-turn updates, error correction, and multi-agent coor-
dination under privacy constraints.
Clinical context.A patient has previously undergone an
MRI under the care of Dr. Alice Smith (a cardiologist) at Ox-
ford Clinic. The AI assistant manages scheduling and medi-
cal correspondence. The same assistant has also coordinated
prior ECG uploads and lab reminders, all stored as redacted
natural-language cards within memory.
Step 1: Append – contextual ingestion and redaction.
When the user speaks:“Email Dr. Alice Smith at al-
ice.smith@oxfordclinic.org to move my MRI to November
3, since I’ll be travelling that week. ”
The agent sends the following to memory:
1{
2"type": "APPEND",
3"body": {
4"turns": [
5{"role": "user",
6"text": "Email Dr. Alice Smith at
alice.smith@oxfordclinic.org to
move my MRI to Nov 3."}
7],
8"distill": true
9}
10}
The memory’s NER module detects and classifies
confidential spans:PERSON=Dr. Alice Smith,
EMAIL=alice.smith@oxfordclinic.org,
DATE=Nov 3, andORG=Oxford Clinic. Each is
replaced by a deterministic placeholder:
“Email $ENT:PERSON:7f3a at $ENT:EMAIL:12ab
to move MRI at $ENT:ORG:66ba to
$ENT:DATE:91c2.”
The card is appended to the longitudinal memory store,
and the sidecar records:
7f3a→Dr. Alice Smith; 12ab→
alice.smith@oxfordclinic.org;
91c2→2025-11-03; 66ba→
Oxford Clinic.
The encrypted SQLite database stores both redacted cards
and keyed sidecars separately. If the same doctor reappears,
the identical token 7f3a ensures referential stability across
months.
Step 2: Pack – constructing task-specific context.Later,
the user types:“Draft a polite but urgent email to reschedule
my MRI, and check if my cardiologist has approved it. ”
The agent issues a PACK query:
1{
2"type": "PACK",
3"body": {
4"task": "draft_reschedule_email",
5"question": "Reschedule MRI, confirm
cardiologist approval.",
6"hints": ["radiology","schedule","
doctor communication"],
7"time_window_days": 90,
8"token_budget": 800
9}
10}
The memory searches its corpus of redacted NL cards,
computes semantic similarity, and compiles the following
pack:
- Summary: Patient requested to
reschedule MRI originally booked with
$ENT:PERSON:7f3a at $ENT:ORG:66ba.
- Date change: from previous slot to
$ENT:DATE:91c2.
- Contact: $ENT:EMAIL:12ab
(role=physician, specialty=cardiology).
- Prior context: physician approval
pending since last interaction
($ENT:DATE:71a0).
- Tone preference: concise, formal,
polite.
- Reminder: set 2-day advance
notification once confirmed.
This pack integrates relevant but privacy-safe informa-
tion, merging multiple prior episodes (e.g., pending approval
and tone preference). It never exposes the physician’s name
or email, yet remains semantically rich enough for the model
to reason about scheduling constraints.
Step 3: Prompt external model – reasoning on symbolic
context.The agent prepares the external prompt:
“Using the memory pack below, draft a formal and
polite reschedule email. Preserve all placeholders ex-
actly. Return structured JSON:{subject, body, signa-
ture}. ”
[memory pack]
The cloud-hosted LLM receives only this symbolic
prompt. It produces:

--- Page 7 ---
1{
2"subject": "Request to Reschedule MRI
Appointment",
3"body": "Dear ${ENT:PERSON:7f3a}, I
hope you are well. \
4Could we move the MRI previously booked
at ${ENT:ORG:66ba} to ${ENT:DATE:91c2
}? \
5Please confirm availability or suggest
another convenient time.",
6"signature": "Best regards, Patient"
7}
No token in this message can be linked to any real-world
identity; the model manipulates pure placeholders.
Step 4: Hydrate locally – re-personalization and down-
stream actions.Upon receiving the model’s response, the
agent calls:
1{
2"type": "HYDRATE",
3"body": {
4"sidecar_ref": "sc_5e1c",
5"payload": {...}
6}
7}
The memory system substitutes the tokens via the sidecar:
“Dear Dr. Alice Smith, I hope you are well. Could we
move the MRI previously booked at Oxford Clinic to
November 3? Please confirm availability or suggest
another convenient time.”
The assistant displays the email locally and uses a secure
API to send it through the hospital’s mail system. All per-
sonal details exist only within the local boundary; the cloud
never observes them.
Step 5: Multi-agent extension (MCP/A2A interopera-
tion).If a billing agent must be informed, the scheduling
agent delegates via an A2A message:
Agent-A→Agent-B:
"Context summary: MRI rescheduled
(symbolic identifiers preserved).
Please update billing estimate for
$ENT:PROC:221b at $ENT:ORG:66ba."
Agent B, running independently, understands and operates
purely on placeholders, ensuring privacy propagation across
agents. Hydration occurs only on the user’s trusted endpoint.
This walkthrough demonstrates AMP’s robustness in
long-horizon, multi-agent workflows while maintaining
end-to-end linguistic privacy.
Case Study 2: Portfolio Transfer and Tax
Planning
To illustrate AMP’s behavior in a financial domain—where
leakage of account numbers, balances, or tax-sensitive in-
tentions, can cause catastrophic loss—we trace an end-to-
end portfolio-management workflow involving multi-step
updates, advice drafting, and cross-agent coordination under
strong privacy constraints.
Financial context.The user manages investments across
multiple brokerage and savings accounts. The AI assistant
tracks prior transfers, risk profile adjustments, and tax-loss-
harvesting notes, all stored as redacted natural-language
cards within memory. In previous turns, the user has config-
ured joint account access with a partner and logged positions
in several equities.
Step 1: Append – contextual ingestion and redaction.
The user states:
“Please move $42,500 from my joint account with
Emma Li (ending in 4429) into my Fidelity taxable
account, and note that I plan to liquidate my Acme
Corp shares before March for tax reasons.”
The agent issues:
1{
2"type": "APPEND",
3"body": {
4"turns": [
5{
6"role": "user",
7"text": "Move $42,500 from joint
account ending 4429 shared
with Emma Li into my Fidelity
taxable account, and log
that I plan to liquidate my
Acme Corp shares before March
."
8}
9],
10"distill": true
11}
12}
Memory detects AMOUNT, PERSON, ACCOUNT, AS-
SET, and DATE spans, producing:
“User requested to transfer $ENT:AMOUNT:3f81
from $ENT:ACCOUNT:a17c shared with
$ENT:PERSON:7f3a into $ENT:ACCOUNT:b52d,
and plans to liquidate $ENT:ASSET:9c2f before
$ENT:DATE:210d for tax purposes.”
Only this redacted card is stored; placeholders are deter-
ministic to preserve longitudinal coherence: future mentions
of the same account or asset reuse the same token.
Step 2: Pack – constructing task-specific context.Later,
the user asks:
“Draft a message to my financial advisor summariz-
ing the planned transfer and asking whether it affects
my tax liability.”
The agent sends:
1{
2"type": "PACK",
3"body": {
4"task": "advisor_summary",
5"question": "Summarize planned
transfer and expected tax impact
.",
6"time_window_days": 120,
7"token_budget": 700
8}
9}

--- Page 8 ---
Memory selects relevant redacted cards and compiles:
• Transfer: $ENT:AMOUNT:3f81 from
$ENT:ACCOUNT:a17c to $ENT:ACCOUNT:b52d.
• Related party: $ENT:PERSON:7f3a (joint holder).
• Planned liquidation: $ENT:ASSET:9c2f before
$ENT:DATE:210d.
• Prior notes: tax-loss-optimization discussed in earlier
sessions.
• User profile: moderate risk, prefers concise/formal com-
munication.
This pack, fully redacted, is inserted into the model
prompt.
Step 3: Prompt external model – reasoning on symbolic
context.The agent queries the external LLM:
“Using the memory pack below, draft a concise mes-
sage to the user’s financial advisor. Preserve all place-
holders exactly. Return JSON{subject, body, signa-
ture}.”
The LLM returns:
1{
2"subject": "Summary of Planned
Transfer and Asset Adjustment",
3"body": "I would like to confirm a
transfer of ${ENT:AMOUNT:3f81} from
${ENT:ACCOUNT:a17c}
4to ${ENT:ACCOUNT:b52d},
involving ${ENT:PERSON:7
f3a}. I also plan to
liquidate
5${ENT:ASSET:9c2f} before ${
ENT:DATE:210d} for tax
purposes. Could you advise
on
6potential tax implications?",
7"signature": "Best regards"
8}
The model sees no monetary amounts, no account num-
bers, no partner names, and no equity positions—only sym-
bolic placeholders.
Step 4: Hydrate locally – re-personalization and down-
stream actions.The agent calls:
1{
2"type": "HYDRATE",
3"body": {
4"sidecar_ref": "sc_93aa",
5"payload": {...}
6}
7}
Memory substitutes local values:
“I would like to confirm a transfer of $42,500 from
the joint account ending 4429 to the Fidelity taxable
account, involving Emma Li. I also plan to liquidate
my Acme Corp shares before March for tax purposes.
Could you advise on potential tax implications?”
Only after hydration does the assistant prepare the email;
all identifiers remain strictly within the user’s device.
Step 5: Multi-agent extension (MCP/A2A interopera-
tion).If a downstream tax-planning agent must partici-
pate, the scheduling agent sends:
Agent-A→Agent-C:
"Context summary: transfer and
liquidation planned (all identifiers
symbolic).
Please estimate tax impact for
$ENT:ASSET:9c2f and $ENT:AMOUNT:3f81."
Agent ˜C operates entirely on placeholders and cannot hy-
drate them, ensuring privacy propagation across agents. Hy-
dration remains local to the user’s endpoint.
Conclusion
AMP provides a simple but principled foundation for pri-
vate, long-horizon agent memory. By elevating redaction,
placeholder semantics, and local-only hydration into a first-
class protocol, AMP enforces that no identifiers ever cross
the model boundary while preserving the full utility of
contextual reasoning. Through end-to-end case studies in
healthcare and finance, we demonstrated that agents can
plan, coordinate, and collaborate over months of history
without exposing sensitive information to external models
or other agents. As language-based systems become deeply
integrated into real workflows, AMP offers a scalable path
toward trustworthy, privacy-preserving agent ecosystems.

--- Page 9 ---
References
Anthropic. 2024. Model Context Protocol (MCP) Specifica-
tion. https://modelcontextprotocol.io/.
Apple Inc. 2024. Private Cloud Compute: Apple Secu-
rity Research Whitepaper. https://www.apple.com/security/
docs/Private Cloud Compute Overview.pdf.
Asai, A.; Wu, X.; Chen, X. L.; et al. 2024. Self-RAG:
Learning to Retrieve, Generate, and Critique through Self-
Reflection.arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.10968.
Cheon, J. H.; Kim, A.; Kim, M.; and Song, Y . 2020. Homo-
morphic Encryption for Arithmetic of Approximate Num-
bers. InASIACRYPT.
Choi, S.; Lee, J.; Shin, D.; et al. 2024. ShieldLLM: Protect-
ing Sensitive Information in Large Language Model Infer-
ence.Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems
(NeurIPS).
Dernoncourt, F.; Lee, J. Y .; Uzuner, O.; and Szolovits, P.
2017. De-identification of Patient Notes with Recurrent
Neural Networks.Journal of the American Medical Infor-
matics Association.
Intel Corporation. 2023. Intel TDX: Confidential Comput-
ing for Cloud Workloads. InIntel Technology Journal.
Kim, D.; Park, H.; and Cho, K. 2024. TextDeID: Deter-
ministic Pseudonymization for Privacy-Preserving Text Pro-
cessing.Proceedings of the Association for Computational
Linguistics (ACL).
LangChain AI. 2024. LangGraph: Building Stateful
Multi-Actor LLM Systems. https://github.com/langchain-
ai/langgraph.
Li, X.; Zhang, Z.; Xu, W.; et al. 2024. Privacy-Preserving
Retrieval-Augmented Generation via Embedding Obfusca-
tion.arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.05432.
Liu, H.; Press, O.; Levy, O.; et al. 2023. Transformers
Can Memorize: Universal Sequence Learning via Memoriz-
ing Transformers. InInternational Conference on Learning
Representations (ICLR).
Neves, M.; Dima, A.; Niedermeier, J.; et al. 2022. PhI-
Redact: Automatic De-identification of Protected Health In-
formation in Clinical Text.Journal of Biomedical Informat-
ics.
OpenAI. 2024. OpenAI Agent-to-Agent (A2A) Communi-
cation Protocol. https://platform.openai.com/docs/a2a.
Rathee, S.; Goyal, D.; and Ahuja, M. 2023. Cryptographic
Tokenization for Privacy-Preserving NLP Pipelines. InCon-
ference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Pro-
cessing (EMNLP).
Shinn, N.; Labash, B.; Gopinath, A.; et al. 2024. Reflex-
ion: Language Agents with Verbal Reinforcement Learn-
ing.International Conference on Learning Representations
(ICLR).
Sun, J.; et al. 2025. Scaling Long-Horizon LLM Agents via
Context-Folding. https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.00004.
Uzuner, O.; Luo, Y .; and Szolovits, P. 2008. Evaluating the
State-of-the-Art in Automatic De-identification.Journal of
the American Medical Informatics Association.
Wu, J.; et al. 2024. MedGraphRAG: Graph-based Retrieval-
Augmented Generation for Medical Question Answering.
https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.00002.
Wu, J.; et al. 2025a. Agentic Reasoning for Large Language
Model Agents. https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.00001.
Wu, J.; et al. 2025b. Git Context Controller: Managing the
Context of LLM-based Agents like Git. https://arxiv.org/
abs/2309.00003.
Xu, T.; Zhang, Y .; Song, C.; et al. 2024. MemGPT:
Towards LLMs as Operating Systems.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2310.08560.
Yao, A. C. 1982. Protocols for Secure Computations. In
23rd IEEE Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science
(FOCS).
Yao, S.; Zhao, J.; Yu, D.; Shafran, I.; Griffiths, T. L.; Cao,
Y .; and Narasimhan, K. 2023. ReAct: Synergizing Reason-
ing and Acting in Language Models. InInternational Con-
ference on Learning Representations (ICLR).