

--- Page 1 ---
Report from the NSF Future Directions Workshop, Toward
User-Oriented Agents: Research Directions and Challenges
Maxine Eskenazi MAX @CS.CMU .EDU
Carnegie Mellon University
Tiancheng Zhao TIANCHEZ @SOCO .AI
SOCO.AI
Abstract
This USER Workshop was convened with the goal of deﬁning future research directions for the
burgeoning intelligent agent research community and to communicate them to the National Sci-
ence Foundation. It took place in Pittsburgh Pennsylvania on October 24 and 25, 2019 and was
sponsored by National Science Foundation Grant Number IIS-1934222. Any opinions, ﬁndings
and conclusions or future directions expressed in this document are those of the authors and do
not necessarily reﬂect the views of the National Science Foundation. The 27 participants presented
their individual research interests and their personal research goals. In the breakout sessions that
followed, the participants deﬁned the main research areas within the domain of intelligent agents
and they discussed the major future directions that the research in each area of this domain should
take.
2019 Toward User-Oriented Agents Workshop participants/report contributors:
• Prabhakaran Balakrishnan, National Sci-
ence Foundation
• Jeffrey Bigham, Carnegie Mellon Univer-
sity
• Carlos Busso, University of Texas Dallas
• Jamie Callan, Carnegie Mellon University
• Vivian Chen, National Taiwan University
• Barbara DiEugenio, University of Illinois
at Chicago
• Maxine Eskenazi, Carnegie Mellon Uni-
versity
• Milica Gasic, Heinrich Heine University
• Joakim Gustafsson, KTH Royal Institute
of Technology
• Julia Hirschberg, Columbia University
• Rebecca Hwa, National Science Founda-
tion
• Andruid Kerne, National Science Founda-
tion
• Tanya Korelsky, National Science Foun-
dation
• Diane Litman, University of Pittsburgh
• Shikib Mehri, Carnegie Mellon University
• Roger Moore, University of Shefﬁeld
• LP Morency, Carnegie Mellon University
• Mari Ostendorf, University of Washington
• Antoine Raux, Apple
• Verena Reiser, Heriot Watt University
1
arXiv:2006.06026v1  [cs.CL]  10 Jun 2020

--- Page 2 ---
• Wade Shen, Actuate Innovation
• Amanda Stent, Bloomberg
• David Suendermann-Oeft, Modality.AI
• David Traum, University of Southern Cal-
ifornia
• Stefan Ultes, Daimler
• Clare V oss, Army Research Laboratories
• Marilyn Walker, University of Santa Cruz
• Tiancheng Zhao, SOCO.AI
1. Introduction
Intelligent agents have entered the realm of popular use. Over 50,000,000 agents are present in
homes in the US alone. As they become part of the household, the developing dependencies and
immense opportunities challenge the AI community to expand its research horizons. While much
past research has centered on the intelligent agent itself, future research must center on the user.
When research only develops the qualities of the agent and ignores the needs and individual char-
acteristics of users, agents perform poorly. Poor performance leads to the users loss of faith. Not
only will the user no longer use an agent, but loss of conﬁdence and public interest in using agents
can have serious consequences for research. This can be as harmful to research as the drastically
reduced funding that automatic speech recognition (ASR) experienced in the 1990s. The agent must
serve the needs of the user (Eskenazi et al., 2019). Intelligent agent research should center around
the vision of an interlocutor that converses easily with one or more users on a large variety of topics
in many diverse settings. It is a ﬂexible, robust partner in many everyday endeavors.
In the early days of dialog research, the user was an equal partner with the agent. Assessment
was often based on the PARADISE approach (Walker et al., 1997). Researchers measured the length
of dialogs and their success rate. At the time, this approach aimed at measuring whether the user
obtained what they had requested. Speed and correct information were considered to be the charac-
teristics that would satisfy the user. This was conﬁrmed with user feedback surveys. Since that time,
researchers have examined new aspects of the agent, for example, emotion (Gratch and Marsella,
2001), concentrating on whether the system chose to express the right emotion given some context
where right is a match with something that occurred in the past context. Then rapport and other
affective characteristics were added to the agent (Gratch et al., 2007). Again, the focus was on
whether the agent was expressing this correctly, given past context. The academic community has
experienced difﬁculty in obtaining data from real users. Consequently, researchers have turned to
simulated users and paid users. Simulated users can generate a signiﬁcant amount of data, but the ut-
terances generated can never deal with elements that were not in the dataset they were trained on. It
is also known that paid users respond very differently from real ones. (Ai et al., 2007), for example,
showed that paid users accept undesirable information from a system simply because getting what
they wanted would take more time. Personae have been created. The ConvAI2 assessment (Dinan
et al., 2020) determined whether the correct persona was chosen based on past context but not on the
agents usefulness. Present measures used to determine an agent’s success often have nothing to do
with the user. For example, the BLEU (Papineni et al., 2002) lexical similarity score has little to do
with dialog success (Liu et al., 2016). In sum, much state-of-the-art intelligent agent research only
centers on and assesses what an agent produces, not what the user has obtained from their conver-
sation. A few exceptions do exist, for example, the agents, such as the twin museum guides and the
2

--- Page 3 ---
agent to diagnose mental illness produced by researchers at the University of Southern California
(USC) (Traum, 2008).
1.1 The role of the agent
One of the overarching goals of the intelligent agent community has been to test whether the agent
can be designed to be indistinguishable from a human. This is often referred to as the Turing
test (Turing, 1950). The Turing test presented the very seductive idea of having a machine deceive
a human. Much research every year goes into creating an agent capable of making the user be-
lieve that it is human. And some research has gone as far as to produce agents that reside in the
Uncanny Valley (Moore, 2012). Deception has created fear in the general public. Consequently
much explaining has taken place (robots are not out to take over the world, they will not replace
humans (Lee, 2019)).
This USER Workshop report relays the intelligent agent research communitys vision of the
future directions it should follow which government funding agencies should encourage. The vision
builds on the relationship between the agent and the user rather than on the appearance and functions
of the agent alone. It has a well-deﬁned set of goals that lead to clear directions for research and for
assessing progress. User satisfaction and self-assessment of agent usefulness are pillars in deﬁning
and assessing the role of the user as well as in determining how well agents serve their users. At the
same time, areas related to user wellbeing such as health, behavior and education have their own
objectives, expert measurements such as blood pressure or post-test improvement.
The USER Workshop participants agreed that the intelligent agents main role is to be the users
partner. The agent should work hand in hand with the user toward some mutual goal. This implies
that every type of agent should have a goal, for example, to serve information or just provide com-
panionship. With this role in mind, we measure success from our own expert observation, from
third party observation and, especially, from the users point of view. Examples of seamless partners
are: a pen is the partner of the hand when writing; a car is the partner of a rider when traveling.
The iPhone has taken the place of a watch as a partner in telling time. Apple store employees ask
customers to come back after an hour to pick up a phone left for a simple repair. They observe that
most customers come back in 15 minutes and are surprised to ﬁnd that it has not been an hour. They
appear to have lost the ability to estimate time without their iPhone.
If the agent traditionally begins a dialog with, How may I help you?, it should end it with Have
I helped you?.
1.2 Present research in user-oriented intelligent agents
Some research has taken the user into account. PARADISE (Walker et al., 1997), which used task
completion while optimizing for the number of utterances, is a measure that is still employed in
many publications.
Tan et al. (2018) used LSTMs to predict the empathetic response of the user over time, con-
centrating on the emotions of the user rather than those of the agent. Muralidharan et al. (2018)
sped up data annotation of user engagement by using speciﬁc signals from the user that reﬂect their
engagement. They then used multitask learning and validation to increase labelling accuracy. They
chose to create coarse grain labels, which are easier to obtain and more reliable and then used them
to generate ﬁner grain labels. Braden Hancock (2019) used a conﬁguration that enabled the user
to give the agent immediate feedback when it made an error. The agent ﬁrst detected that the user
3

--- Page 4 ---
was not satisﬁed and then generated an appropriate question so that the user could explain what
should have been said. They then modeled the users answer to generate future utterances. Eskenazi
et al. (2019) used previous context and the user response immediately following the agent utterance
being assessed to determine the quality of that utterance. This shows better results than past work
that only used the past context, ignoring the users reaction to the agent utterance.
One way to carry out intelligent agent assessment is to employ third party human judgment.
Lowe et al. (2017) determined the validity of the agents response based on criteria such as topicality,
informativeness and whether the context required that the background information be understand-
able. Shah et al. (2016) demonstrated the possibility of interactively adapting to the users response
using reinforcement learning so that the system developer could indicate the desired end states. This
made the agents speech more varied than the speech in the training database. By actively modifying
the agent using the simulated user turn that follows a given system turn, the new system response
became increasingly more appropriate and useful to the user.
1.3 Impacts of user-oriented intelligent agent research
1.3.1 Applications that inﬂuence many
The impact of intelligent agent research has gone beyond the scientiﬁc community, where novel
techniques and massive use of neural networks abound. Intelligent agents are now a part of ev-
eryday life. They serve general needs for information and chat, as we see in the most popular
applications: SIRI (Apple.com), Amazon Echo (Amazon.com), etc. Agents are also used in more
targeted domains. Some examples are list below. See Section 3 for more details.
1. Seniors: An intelligent agent for seniors that is more understandable and gives out information
in a more memorable manner (Mehri et al., 2019a)
2. Healthcare: An agent that interviews patients to determine mental health issues (Rizzo et al.,
2016). An agent that helps with home care for patients with dementia (Cailleteau, 2019)
3. Education: agents that are used to assess non-natives levels of ﬂuency (Litman et al., 2016).
Tutoring in the domain of Machine Learning using dialog (Takumi et al., 2019). Education
on sexual assault and harassment (Artstein et al., 2019)
1.4 Transformative infrastructure for industry in the next 10 years
In industry research centers on agents that serve the companys purpose. For example, Alexa (Ram
et al., 2018) often helps Amazon sell merchandise. Advances in industrial agents beneﬁt from a
signiﬁcant amount of data from real users and superior computing power. Since the advances in
industry are usually driven by commercial goals, they do not address much of the fundamental
research needed to make transformational advances. Neural networks are the state of the art in
intelligent agent architecture research. Despite claims that they are used in commercial systems,
most companies continue to employ droves of workers who create handwritten rules rather than
rely on the nascent and very rigid neural networks. In the coming years, industry is poised to
implement the more reliable neural systems that will come from academic research.
4

--- Page 5 ---
1.5 A healthy research community
A healthy research community is a community that has diverse research directions and method-
ologies. Encouraging research on user-centric intelligent agents can create a balance with present
agent-centric research. Multidisciplinarity is another feature of a thriving community. It provides
opportunities for future researchers to continuously innovate by adapting ideas from different dis-
ciplines. Additionally, user-centric intelligent agents may provide answers to one of the hardest
challenges for current state-of-the-art systems: system evaluation and learning with the human-in-
the-loop.
2. Research Topics & Future Directions
The USER Workshop participants deﬁned seven broad areas of future intelligent agent research:
applications; dynamic views of user-agent interactions; infrastructure; intelligent agents as good
actors; multimodal, grounded and situated interaction; robust and ﬂexible dialog management; data
reduction. Six crosscutting themes have surfaced that reﬂect issues common to several areas. These
themes are: user-centric focus, multidisciplinary research teams, dialog conditions and situations,
focused shared tasks, ethics and privacy, architecture. Table 1 shows the intersections of the themes
and the broad areas.
Broad
area/Theme
User centric Architecture Multi disci-
plinary
Conditions
& situations
Shared tasks Ethics & pri-
vacy
Applications x x x
Dynamic
user-agent
interactions
x x x x
Infrastructure x x x
Intelligent
agents / good
actors
x x
Multimodal,
grounded
& situated
interaction
x x x x x x
Robust
& ﬂexi-
ble dialog
management
x x x x
Data reduc-
tion
x x x
Table 1: Broad areas (rows) and themes (columns)
2.1 Crosscutting Themes
As described in detail below, each area discussion revealed a set of future directions that USER
participants believed should be encouraged in the coming years.
Before describing the areas of research, this section discusses the crosscutting themes.
5

--- Page 6 ---
2.1.1 User-centric inspiration
Researchers need to understand the users goals and beliefs in order to orient their research toward
the user. One way to achieve this is to study human dialog. Another is to assess using measures
such as user satisfaction that clearly reﬂect the success from the user’s point of view.
2.1.2 Multidisciplinary research teams
In order to create truly useful intelligent agent applications and to understand intrinsic aspects of
dialog, research teams should include experts from multiple domains. Some domains that are most
relevant are linguistics, pragmatics, reasoning and psychology. Groups should also include area ex-
perts relevant to the type of agent they are creating. for example, individuals specialized in health-
care or education if the application is on that topic.
2.1.3 Conditions and situations
Intelligent agents have the potential to be present in a large variety of situations. They will take
part in multiparty dialogs where the parties are a combination of humans and agents. They will be
endowed with a broad range of modalities, including prosody and haptics. Situated dialog will ﬁnd
them pointing to and handing over physical objects and detecting/acting on objects in real situations.
They will modify their style of delivery to support a variety of user preferences, such as verbosity.
Thus they will become more personalized and dynamic. They will interact with users for longer
conversations that will take place more and more frequently.
2.1.4 Focused shared tasks
The intelligent agent community increasingly assesses its progress through shared tasks. Some of
the types of tasks that the USER Workshop participants envisaged are: situated dialogs, multiple
thread dialogs involving complex planning, learning with less data and multimodal dialog.
2.1.5 Ethics and privacy
Although this theme is a broad area in itself, several other areas also mentioned it. Going forward,
the design of research projects should include dealing with misuse and adversarial attacks. There
should be concerted efforts in the area of privacy-preserving speech/visual/language processing
and machine learning. The tension that exists between preserving privacy and having access to
user models and audio-visual signals that can improve agent performance must be addressed. And
ﬁnally, funders should favor proposals that include the creation of education and outreach programs
on ethical issues.
2.1.6 Architecture
Although intelligent agent architecture has rapidly changed over the past few years, if agents are
to realize their full potential, it is important that newcomers be able to easily join the research
community. For this, plug-and-play systems that afford easier entry to the ﬁeld must be developed.
These systems can be treated as end-to-end black boxes. This will enable new researchers to come
up to speed without prior knowledge of the workings of each module.
Incremental speech processing must be generalized toward incremental multimodality. Re-
searchers must combine structured representations that support inference with neural models (un-
6

--- Page 7 ---
structured text). Explicit representations of dialog that can be shared across domains, tasks and
applications should be favored. The community also needs a repository of pre-trained models ac-
companied by a usage guideline.
The following sections provide a detailed description of the seven areas of future research that
were strongly advocated by the USER Workshop attendees.
3. Applications
3.1 Introduction
Taking the user into account is essential in intelligent agent research across a multitude of appli-
cations. While all agents have their own merits, publicly funded research on user-oriented agents
should follow a number of guiding principles:
1. Applications should have three purposes: (a) advance fundamental research, (b) provide op-
portunities for commercialization, (c) do good for society
2. Applications should be different from those that have already been broadly addressed in the
past decades of intelligent agent research (ﬂight booking, restaurant reservation, bus schedul-
ing)
3. Application teams should foster interdisciplinary relationships with scientiﬁc ﬁelds outside
of computer science
Although there are many relevant ﬁelds that satisfy these principles, two broad ﬁelds are:
• Healthcare applications, e.g. diagnostics agents, caretaking agents, wellness agents, scribe
agents, rehabilitation agents, and so on
• Educational applications, e.g. language learning agents, teacher training agents, interviewer
agents, sourcing agents, assessment agents, tutoring agents
This section contains a detailed discussion of these two application areas and poses several key
research questions related to them It also discusses the importance of interdisciplinarity in user-
oriented agent research, and formulates major directions for intelligent agent applications.
3.2 Healthcare
Intelligent agents give healthcare providers new means of conducting intake interviews and train-
ing. This technology is particularly relevant for people who ﬁnd it difﬁcult to consult a healthcare
provider. For example, military veterans returning from deployment may feel a stigma around
mental health, and especially around post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) (Rizzo et al., 2016). In-
telligent agents acting as virtual interviewers can offer an alternative to a ﬁrst meeting with a human
for people feeling uncertain about mental health. In a study by Lucas et al. (2014), people who were
told they were interacting with a fully-automatic computer agent (as opposed to a human operating
the agent) felt lower fear of self-disclosure, lower impression management, displayed their sadness
more intensely, and were rated by observers as more willing to disclose. These virtual interviewers
can be extended to become decision support tools for clinicians and healthcare providers by adding
the capability of automatically detecting behavior markers of mental health (DeVault et al., 2014).
7

--- Page 8 ---
Behavior markers can be detected from multiple modalities: language (what is said), acoustics (how
it is said) and visuals (expressions and gestures). Examples of behavior markers discovered using
multimodal AI technologies include smile dynamics as a marker of depression (Scherer et al., 2014),
speech disﬂuencies as marker of psychosis (Vail et al., 2018) and voice quality as marker of suicidal
ideation (Venek et al., 2017). Multimodal behavior markers offer clinicians objective measures of
the patients behavior that are relevant to their assessment of mental health symptoms and disorders.
Intelligent agents can also be used as training tools for junior clinicians or for healthcare workers.
An example is the Virtual Patient system which can create a safe environment for clinicians-in-
training to interact with different types of patients to improve their assessment skills (Kenny et al.,
2007).
3.3 Education
Intelligent agents have been used to support a variety of interactive educational applications in
a cost-effective and scalable manner. In one-on-one settings where the goal is to increase students
knowledge about a particular domain (often STEM) via conversational interaction, agents have been
developed that can take the role of tutor, peer, or tutee (Graesser et al., 2005; Kersey et al., 2009;
Lubold et al., 2018), reﬂecting different theories from the learning sciences about how to foster
student learning via dialog. It has also been hypothesized that agents that are more user-oriented
and that can detect and adapt to student affective states (e.g., (Litman and Forbes-Riley, 2014))
or that can increase rapport (Zhao et al., 2018) will be even more effective at increasing student
learning.
In the area of language learning and assessment, having students converse with intelligent agents
has been proposed as a method for supporting both formative and summrative tasks (e.g., (Litman
et al., 2016; Evanini et al., 2018; Ramanarayanan et al., 2018)). Finally, there have been efforts to
move beyond one-on-one computer-student conversational interactions, for example, by enabling
trialogues between a student and two agents, by facilitating a students dialog with other human
students as in computer-supported collaborative learning, and by enabling students to observe the
training dialogs of other students and/or intelligent agents (e.g.; 2019 (Takumi et al., 2019; Ku-
mar and Ros ´e, 2014; Piwek et al., 2007)). With respect to supporting teachers and others in the
workplace rather than students, intelligent agents can support job training by simulating participa-
tion in target scenarios (e.g., sexual assault education by interacting with victim agents (Artstein
et al., 2019). Thanks to the challenges that off the shelf agents often face when applied to educa-
tional problems and data, due to differences in evaluation criteria, user modeling needs, dialogue
structures, etc., this socially important application area typically produces innovative research.
3.4 Other Application Areas
Other applications that spring from the agent-user partnership are, for example, factory assistants
and aides for seniors.
Factory workers use agents for a variety of narrowlydeﬁned applications. Workers inspecting
equipment use agents to record their observations. These agents must adapt to the users background
and preferences. For example, some employees have had the same job for decades and need very
little help. The agent in this case just provides hands-free data entry, and the worker may only need
one dialog turn to get something done. A newer employee, on the other hand, needs more help,
implicit training from a chattier agent, until they are familiar with the task. Some workers who have
8

--- Page 9 ---
been on the job for a while may still need some help. An agent should be able to detect that. It
should also know when the user needs some extra time between turns. Here, assessment determines
whether the worker was able to correctly ﬁnish their task, if they did it with less error, if they felt
free to ask for extra information when needed and if they would use the agent again.
For seniors getting transportation information, agents should take into account the fact that
human capabilities change as we age. An agent partnering with a senior must be sensitive to slower
information processing and less multitasking (Black et al., 2002).The agent must adapt its speaking
rate to that of the senior user. It should also provide them with only the amount of information
that they can process at a given time. An agent communicating with seniors should be assessed
according to its capability to demonstrate these qualities. It should also be assessed according to
what the user got out of the interaction. Was the senior able to use the information to get where they
intended to go? Did they enjoy their chat with the agent? Would they use it again? Older people
own fewer smartphones and have less access to the internet. By using an agent that is connected to
a phone number, seniors can call the agent to get information about, for example, how to get to a
doctors ofﬁce (Mehri et al., 2019a).
3.5 Research Questions
Future intelligent agent research should be driven by the exploration of a broad range of applications.
This will see the user communities expose gaps between current technology and the new research
questions to be addressed.
Research in education and healthcare applications will generally involve the need to preserve
user privacy, particularly because of longitudinal data storage. These concerns will extend to other
applications as more agents become personalized. Some research should address the tension be-
tween preserving privacy and having access to user models and audio-visual signals that can improve
agent performance. The need to preserve privacy also poses infrastructure challenges concerning
data sharing, which is desirable for reproducible research. Longitudinal data use also poses chal-
lenges to current machine learning algorithms. Many of the present algorithms rely on access to
static datasets based on a large number of users. This is not practical when long-term data is needed
from individual users.
Many of the above applications can potentially involve multiple interacting parties, i.e. multiple
users and/or multiple agents. For example, in assistive care, an agent might communicate with the
patient and the caretaker together as well as separately. In education, an agent that supports student
collaboration would deal with multiple users at the same time. New research challenges will spring
form these situations related to knowing who is interacting and what their roles are, tracking the
user state for each user and learning dialog policies for users with different objectives. Evaluation
methodologies will need to account for multiple objectives as well.
Applications that explore a variety of domains and new user communities will likely reveal
new challenges associated with particular types of language use, such as domain jargon, student
idioms and slang, and linguistic code-switching amongst multiple languages. In such cases, the
standard language processing approach of relying on pre-trained word embeddings is less useful.
Some user populations may pose challenges associated with speech technology. Speech recognition
is known to work poorly for children and for users with strong accents. Intelligent agents built to
serve speakers of low resource languages or dialects will also require special speech and language
recognition and generation technology development.
9

--- Page 10 ---
Finally, application platforms that involve a variety of user populations will drive research that
enables agents to serve more users. Working with narrow populations to serve specialized needs
may involve people who are more or less comfortable with an agent and require different interaction
strategies. Depending on the application, a user may assume different relationships with the agent,
i.e. treating the agent as servant or tool that extends their own capabilities vs. a teacher or a
facilitator. These roles will necessarily require different interaction strategies, both in actions and
language use. For applications where an agent interacts with a very broad user population, there is
the potential for interacting with people who have different styles and agendas, including adversarial
users. Agents will need a ﬂexible and robust dialog policy to handle a wide range of user types. In
addition, systems will need strategies for learning about and adapting to user preferences/style both
for understanding user intent and dealing with miscommunication.
3.6 Interdisciplinarity
User-centered agents will exist in many forms: as a virtual assistant in wearables (e.g. smart
watches, augmented reality glasses and hearables), in smart homes (e.g. smart speakers, TV sets)
and as social robots (e.g. companions for the elderly, tutors for children and support for doc-
tors). Development of multimodal systems, such as social robots, requires interdisciplinary research
teams, since research projects may involve speech processing, natural language processing, com-
puter vision, robotics, interaction design, cognitive science, and more. If intelligent agents are to
be used for real end users, the actual content of the interaction is of paramount importance. True
societal impact of the research requires long-term collaboration between the research community
and the society they live in. Application-inspired research where intelligent agents are evaluated in
healthcare and educational settings will add knowledge both in fundamental research and in spe-
ciﬁc domain areas. In order to achieve this, project teams need to be even more interdisciplinary
by including both researchers in other ﬁelds (psychology, education science, medical science) and
practitioners in schools and hospitals.
The evaluation of traditional task-oriented dialog systems has focused on objective measures of
the quality of system components, task success, and user satisfaction as measured in post-use ques-
tionnaires (Walker et al., 1997). In slot ﬁlling tasks, user satisfaction is often negatively correlated
with a long time and a lot of effort to fulﬁll the task. In other domains, such as companions for se-
niors, this may not be the case. In the case of a health companion reminding a user to take medicine
or contact friends and family, the user may also judge the quality of the interaction on other aspects
(voice and speaking style, interesting content, level of engagement or adaptation). When developing
companions for seniors, teams should include social and cognitive psychologists and practitioners
from eldercare.
In other domains, such as education, user satisfaction during the interaction may be less appro-
priate as an evaluation criterion than the learning outcome. This calls for educators to be part of
the team during the development and evaluation of educational intelligent agents. Similarly, intelli-
gent agents that are support tools in healthcare require the involvement of medical researchers and
hospital practitioners. Linguists would be needed for teams that develop applications with particu-
lar types of language use, such as kids jargon, air trafﬁc control talk, or linguistic code-switching
between multiple languages. Agents that target low resource languages will require special speech
and language recognition and generation technology to be developed. This requires team members
with additional language expertise and familiarity with the speciﬁc culture.
10

--- Page 11 ---
3.7 Recommendations
Going forward, there should be a stronger focus on novel applications of intelligent agents, espe-
cially those that have not been well-covered in user-oriented agent research.
Research in user-oriented agents should uncover and address issues unique to these application
areas. These applications should be:
• generalizable
• dependant on the user pool
• sensitive to aspects of the individual user (e.g. their satisfaction, their cognitive or behavioral
change, their speaking proﬁciency)
User-oriented intelligent agent research teams need to be interdisciplinary to tackle technologi-
cal, scientiﬁc, and ethical/societal challenges.
4. Infrastructure
4.1 Introduction
With the advent of deep neural networks, a signiﬁcant majority of research in AI concentrates on
incrementally improving the performance of evaluation metrics on speciﬁc tasks and corpora. Thus
the creation of tasks, corpora and evaluation metrics has a central role in deﬁning the community’s
research direction. Solid infrastructure will facilitate effective intelligent agent research, as deﬁned
throughout this report. The sections below outline speciﬁc recommendations for (1) corpora, (2)
tasks, (3) evaluation metrics and (4) tools. Creating solid infrastructure will ensure that research,
even incremental advances, addresses the long-term challenges of intelligent agents.
4.2 Corpora
For the past 30 years the central role that data plays in Natural Language Processing (NLP) has been
recognized. The creation and availability of dialog corpora has exponentially increased during that
time. In fact, the number of available dialog corpora (speech-to-speech, text-to-text, etc) is so large
that no one list of existing corpora can be exhaustive. A fairly comprehensive overview of many
(spoken) dialogue corpora can be found in Serban et al. (2018). There are several types of dialog
corpora:
• open-domain chit-chat conversations: SWITCHBOARD (Godfrey et al., 1992), CALLHOME
(Canavan et al., 1997), OpenSubtitles (Tiedemann, 2012), DailyDialog (Li et al., 2017b), Per-
sonaChat (Zhang et al., 2018), Topical-Chat (Gopalakrishnan et al., 2019);
• information seeking dialogs: Let’s Go (bus scheduling)(Raux et al., 2005), VERBMOBIL
(meetings) (Wahlster, 2013), ATIS (travel reservations) (Dahl et al., 1994), COMMUNICA-
TOR (Bennett and Rudnicky, 2002), Cambridge restaurant (Henderson et al., 2014a,b), Mul-
tiWOZ (complex travel planning tasks) (Budzianowski et al., 2018);
• question-answering: QuAC (Choi et al., 2018), CoQA (Reddy et al., 2019);
11

--- Page 12 ---
• social media e.g. Yahoo news comments (Napoles et al., 2017), Internet argument corpus
(Abbott et al., 2016), Reddit comments (Henderson et al., 2019);
Despite the ever-increasing number of dialog corpora, there are several key issues for future
datasets that are identiﬁed and enumerated below.
4.2.1 Situated Corpora: There is a dearth of ecologically valid, situated language interaction cor-
pora: most of the available corpora focus on tasks that, even when ultimately involving entities in
the real world (e.g. reserving a table at a restaurant), do not require the user to refer to entities that
are physically, or at least virtually, present in the conversation. This is not to say that none of the
earlier corpora referred to physically or virtually present entities: for example, in expert-apprentice
dialogues for assembling a toy pump from Oviatt and Cohen (1992), the participants refer to a
physical object; in both MapTask (Carletta et al., 1997) and TRAINS (Heeman and Allen, 1995),
the participants refer to an external map (in MapTask, the two maps are inconsistent).
4.2.2 Multimodal Corpora: Most available corpora do not include modalities beyond language,
whether spoken or typed. This is beginning to change with datasets like VisDial (Das et al., 2017)
and CLEVR-Dialog (Kottur et al., 2019). Nonetheless, to the best of our knowledge, there is no
corpus with a variety of modalities that pertain to interactive agents (e.g., language, vision, speech,
haptics, facial expressions, motion, prosody, proxemics, etc.).
4.2.3 Real vs Paid Users: Many corpora are created with paid users and are therefore not reﬂective
of legitimate conversations with real users (Ai et al., 2007). Past research has shown that paid users
will complete only enough work to ﬁnish the task, while real users have an extrinsic motivation for
interacting with an intelligent agent and will take more time to get what they want. While it may be
difﬁcult to collect certain corpora with real users, real users could be used in some capacity – for ex-
ample to understand common interaction patterns and motivate the instructions for paid users (e.g.,
if real users tend to switch a slot in the middle of a conversation, paid users should be instructed to
do the same).
4.2.4 Research-Driven Corpora: Many corpora are application-driven rather than research-
driven. New datasets should not necessarily be created just to build systems for a new applica-
tion (e.g., booking a taxi). Rather they should facilitate research in a speciﬁc direction (e.g., task
transfer, controllable systems). With the availability of corpora driving the majority of research, the
collection of corpora can be thought of as the deﬁnition of a research challenge. For example, the
structured intermediate labels of belief states and dialog acts in the multi-domain MultiWOZ corpus
(Budzianowski et al., 2018) resulted in research into domain generalizability (Mehri et al., 2019b)
and controlled generation (Chen et al., 2019). Similarly, the Empathetic-Dialogues corpus allowed
for research into controllable dialog generation (Lin et al., 2019). Dialog corpora should collected
with the underlying goal of understanding of what is needed for a particular research direction. This
may initially necessitate the collection of diagnostic datasets that are limited in scope all the while
allowing for targeted research in a speciﬁc direction.
12

--- Page 13 ---
4.3 Shared Tasks
Shared tasks or challenges are a proven mechanism for creating and encouraging speciﬁc research
directions. While the creation of research-driven corpora may motivate research in a speciﬁc di-
rection, shared tasks are necessary to facilitate the research beyond datasets. They provide both
the motivation (competition, comparison of results with colleagues) and the means to achieve the
research (tools and leaderboards, chat communication between participants, etc).
The infrastructure needed to conduct these shared tasks is important to the community. It facil-
itates participation and enables effective and comparable research in speciﬁc research directions.
DARPA Communicator (Walker et al., 2001) was the ﬁrst instance of a shared task within this
research community. It relied on full interactive evaluation, had a growth trajectory from a single
task to multiple tasks, and was multimodal. There have been many similar shared tasks since then,
including the annual DSTC competitions (Henderson et al., 2014a,b), the ConvAI competitions
(Dinan et al., 2020) and the Alexa Prize challenge (Ram et al., 2018). These shared tasks attract
many participants, and can serve to highlight the shortcomings of intelligent agents. For example,
the ConvAI2 challenge (Dinan et al., 2020) revealed the weakness of automatic metrics at predicting
the user impression of an agent.
One important future direction for shared tasks is to conduct end-to-end, interactive assessment
of the intelligent agent. This gains relevance since, increasingly, the majority of current research
focuses on tasks such as response generation. Interactive assessment requires research that moves
beyond a dataset and favors the shared task approach. The DialPort Portal (Lee et al., 2017) is an
example of a tool endowed with the ability to facilitate shared tasks by providing an interactive,
user-centric environment. Many of the research directions highlighted throughout this report are
potential long-term themes for shared tasks, including situated interaction, complex planning, mul-
timodal dialog, and learning with limited data. Shared tasks will provide a common infrastructure
and evaluation platform for these research directions, ensuring consistency during comparison and
reproducibility.
4.4 Evaluation
Intelligent agent evaluation serves two purposes: a comparison between systems (or system vari-
ants) and an internal optimisation, (e.g., to be used as an objective during training). Just as the
creation of corpora drives intelligent agent research, evaluation metrics deﬁneimprovement criteria
and therefore strongly inﬂuence research. For example, an evaluation framework that emphasizes
user satisfaction will result in research that promotes user-centric agents. As such, it is important
to develop and promote evaluation metrics and frameworks that facilitate important directions of
research (e.g., user-centric metrics to promote research into user-centric agents).
Standard automatic metrics for language generation include BLEU (Papineni et al., 2002),
ROUGE (Lin, 2004), and METEOR (Denkowski and Lavie, 2014). Recently, embedding-based
metrics have been proposed include Greedy Matching (Rus and Lintean, 2012) and Skip-Thought
cosine similarity (Kiros et al., 2015). These metrics have been shown to be ineffective for dialog
evaluation (Deriu et al., 2019; Liu et al., 2016). For example, dialog-agent interaction is a very com-
plex task with an inﬁnite number of possible branches, (i.e., what to say, in which way, at which
point in the dialog). Each dialog context has several valid responses, known as the one-to-many
problem of dialog (Zhao et al., 2017). Also, many current evaluation metrics rely on comparison
with a ground truth, reference response which becomes ineffective when there are many potentially
13

--- Page 14 ---
valid responses. This issue has started to be addressed through the use of multiple reference re-
sponses, through automatic retrieval (Galley et al., 2015; Sordoni et al., 2015) and through data
collection (Gupta et al., 2019).
Lowe et al. (2017) trained a model on quality annotations and attained strong correlations with
human judgement. Li et al. (2017a) trained a model to predict whether a response was written
by a human or a machine, and found that using this as a training objective resulted in improved
performance. There is room for improvement, particularly in producing a general metric that: (1)
does not suffer from the one-to-many problem of standard metrics that compare to a reference, (2)
can generalize to many datasets and does not require explicit annotations speciﬁc to a particular
dataset, (3) can correlate well with human judgement on a wide variety of tasks.
Since intelligent agents are interactive, metrics must function effectively in interactive environ-
ments. Research in evaluation has largely focused on the task of response generation (i.e., given a
ﬁxed context, evaluate a generated response). While this task has proven challenging, it is unclear
whether intelligent agents that perform well on the task of response generation will generalize to an
interactive environment with a real user. In this interactive setting, it is necessary to assess agents
with better automatic metrics and improved human evaluation.
DialPort (Lee et al., 2017) is a platform for interactive assessment of intelligent agents. Prior ex-
periments on DialPort relied on feedback from the user (e.g., ratings). Eskenazi et al. (2019) found
that leveraging the next user utterance following the system response being assessed improves cor-
relation with human judgement. This suggests that that interactive evaluation metrics can leverage
additional context to improve quality assessment. Designing and incorporating an automatic metric
for quality assessment into an interactive platform is a ﬁrst step toward user-centric intelligent agent
evaluation.
4.5 Tools and Platforms
The availability of platforms, tools and baseline systems has a signiﬁcant effect on the research that
the intelligent agent community carries out. Once LSTMs (Hochreiter and Schmidhuber, 1997)
became readily available in deep learning toolkits, they were widely used for research. Similarly, a
thorough, well-documented repository of modern tools for building dialog systems would reduce the
barrier for newcomers and ensure that they can compare their ﬁndings to strong baseline systems.
Likewise, the creation of solid platforms for conducting research can reduce the entry barrier,
and maintain the consistency and reproducibility of research. The OpenAI gym (Brockman et al.,
2016) was created as a toolkit and platform for developing and assessing reinforcement learning
algorithms. It has exhibited signiﬁcant value both as an educational tool and as a common platform
for research.
There are several tool repositories that exist for dialog, including the DialPort Tool Repository1,
Facebook’s ParlAI (Miller et al., 2017), Uber’s Plato Research Dialog System2, and RASA (Bock-
lisch et al., 2017). These repositories contain a collection of tools for building and deploying dialog
systems. These tool repositories are a valuable resource to the community. Going forward, they
need to gain in breadth (need to go beyond focused goals: e.g., industry applications) and include
much more documentation (due to massive breadth). It is important to continue the development of
a thorough repository of tools with strong documentation. Furthermore, it is important to have open
1. http://dialport.ict.usc.edu/
2. https://github.com/uber-research/plato-research-dialogue-system
14

--- Page 15 ---
source baseline intelligent agents that are thoroughly documented and evaluated. Such systems can
serve as baselines for research, especially for newcomers to the ﬁeld.
There is a shortage of shared platforms, similar to the OpenAI gym (Brockman et al., 2016),
for intelligent agent research. DialPort (Lee et al., 2017) is a platform with a focus on interactive
assessment. In addition to their tools, ParlAI (Miller et al., 2017) allows for deployment and shar-
ing of dialog systems. A thorough platform should be developed (and/or the present platforms be
extended) that can support a breadth of research in intelligent agents, from baseline systems, to
creation, assessment and deployment. Platforms should support multimodal and situated agents,
knowledge graph integration and longitudinal user tracking. Additionally, this infrastructure would
facilitate shared tasks in the domain of intelligent agents.
Tools and platforms should eventually be integrated through the concept of ”plug and play”,
wherein focused search could be carried out on a speciﬁc component of a system without mod-
iﬁcation or re-implementation of the entire system. There are several variants of plug and play,
allowing for ﬂexibility of usage and therefore generality of the infrastructure. Researchers should
be able to use infrastructure as a black box; for example, building an improved text-to-speech com-
ponent for intelligent agents and assessing it with an intelligent agent. The infrastructure should
also function in a translucent mode (i.e., some parameters of existing systems being easily modi-
ﬁed) and transparent (i.e., signiﬁcant changes can be made to existing components without complete
re-implementation).
4.6 Recommendations
Infrastructure choices deﬁne and drive intelligent agent research directions. Corpora and shared
tasks deﬁne research challenges for the community. Evaluation metrics determine what is judged to
be an improvement, and therefore what gets published. Tools can provide baseline systems, ensuring
that research compares against strong models. There should be documentation for newcomers.
Recommendations for each of these areas are provided below:
• Corpora: The collection of situated and multimodal corpora is an important future direction.
Also, dialog corpora should incorporate real users in some capacity. Finally, corpora should
be research-driven rather than application-driven: a corpus should be collected to facilitate
a speciﬁc direction of research (e.g., transfer learning, controllable systems, ﬂexible dialog)
rather than for a speciﬁc application.
• Shared Tasks: Shared tasks will require the development of a common infrastructure to
promote effective and comparable research. Examples of potential areas for shared tasks are
interactive assessment (for which the DialPort Portal, for example, can be used as a platform),
situated interaction, complex planning, multimodal dialog and learning with limited data.
• Evaluation: Existing metrics (e.g., BLEU, METEOR) compute word-overlap and are in-
sufﬁcient for evaluating intelligent agents due to the one-to-many nature of their utterances.
Therefore metrics need to be designed that account for these properties. Furthermore, since
intelligent agents are inherently interactive, evaluation should occur in an interactive envi-
ronment rather than on static tasks like response generation. Automatic metrics should be
designed to effectively quantify the performance of systems for both response generation and
in interactive assessment.
15

--- Page 16 ---
• Tools and Platforms: A common research platform should be developed or extended for
intelligent agent research. This platform should be plug and play, support multimodal and
situated interaction, and support research from baseline systems to creation, assessment and
deployment. The platform should consist of a thorough, well-documented repository of tools
for the development of intelligent agents. Such a platform would be long-lasting infrastructure
that is a valuable resource for research, education and shared tasks.
5. Dynamic Views of User-Agent Interaction
One of the greatest challenges for intelligent agents is variability within and across users. Users
have different needs, preferred interaction styles, and comfort levels with agents. For social and
companion systems, it can be important to consider the users opinions, age, and cultural back-
ground. Other factors may be important in other applications (e.g. student skill or knowledge level
in educational systems). In addition, automatic speech recognition (ASR) performs poorly for some
groups of users (e.g. children, the elderly, non-native speakers), which impacts the agents’ efﬁcacy.
In order for agents to server a broad spectrum of users in a range of applications, systems will need
the capability of learning about users. Agents also need to be sensitive to the state of the user within
a dialog, because of miscommunications, changing user interests and skills, etc. Finally, as dia-
log technology evolves to provide new and improved capabilities, users will co-evolve with them,
as evidenced by the dramatically different way people interact with virtual assistants now than in
the demonstration dialog systems of the 90s, i.e. users are more conversational (including more
disﬂuent), and less uncertain.
Current intelligent agents have limited capabilities for adapting to users. Virtual assistants that
associate a user with a device can track user behaviors, such as website clicks, purchasing records,
music choices, and may have access to the users calendar, which is useful for providing personalized
services. Regular users of smart speakers can be identiﬁed by voice to provide similar personaliza-
tion. However, these agents make little use of language or other modalities to assess the dynamic
needs of a known user or respond adaptively to a new user. As described in this section, there have
been initial research efforts in this direction aimed at recognizing user affective and cognitive states,
as well as dynamic user modeling. More work will be needed, but in addition, user-centric dialog
systems will need to handle the dynamics of the user-system, which will evolve as capabilities and
roles change.
5.1 Recognizing engagement, emotion and affect
User-agent interaction can be signiﬁcantly improved by recognizing the cognitive and affective state
of the users. During human interaction, our emotions play an important role in our decision-making
process. Our affective state is externalized through multiple communicative channels including fa-
cial expression, speech, language and body posture. This information is perceived by interlocutors,
who make perceptual judgements that inﬂuence their reactions toward us. Likewise, we can eas-
ily infer the cognitive state of others, realizing when they are paying attention, mind wandering or
immersed in thoughts. For a user-oriented agent to be able to mimic these human-like responses,
it is imperative to design algorithms that can recognize cues toward modeling the cognitive and
emotional state of the user.
Emotion recognition is one of the main challenges in affective computing (Picard, 2000). While
there are several modalities that have been used to recognize emotions, the most common methods
16

--- Page 17 ---
consider facial expression, speech or lexicon content. These modalities can be used in user-oriented
agents depending on the context of the interaction. For example, for telephone and voiced-based
virtual assistant systems, speech is the only modality available. Therefore, it is important to de-
sign speech-based algorithms that are robust against different channel, speaker, and environment
variabilities. As labeled data with emotional descriptors are expensive to collect, it is important
to leverage unsupervised approaches that can mitigate the mismatch between train and test condi-
tions by using unlabeled data (Abdelwahab and Busso, 2018; Parthasarathy and Busso, 2019). As
ASR technology improves, automatic transcriptions can also be used for sentiment analysis. New
advances in deep learning have created powerful word embeddings that have led to signiﬁcant im-
provements in text-based sentiment analysis (Dos Santos and Gatti, 2014; Severyn and Moschitti,
2015). The advances have been triggered, in many cases, by the interest in understanding emotion
in social media. This technology can also be incorporated in emotion-aware, user-oriented agents.
Emotions can be recognized as well from facial expressions in scenarios where placing cameras is
feasible (e.g., human robot interaction, and virtual kiosk). Important advances have been made on
still images displaying clear facial expressions. However, there are still important challenges in face
analysis from videos, especially when the subject is speaking (Mariooryad and Busso, 2015; Kim
and Mower Provost, 2014). The articulatory movements associated with speech cause changes in
the facial appearance, introducing nuances that mask and regulate emotional cues. Furthermore,
static representations from isolated frames may not provide an adequate representation of the emo-
tion expressed in a video, as contextual information is not considered (Ambadar et al., 2005). Future
advances in this area will require better models to infer emotional state of the user from videos, cap-
turing the temporal evolution of the interplay between articulatory and emotional facial displays.
Another important aspect of user-oriented agents is to estimate the engagement level of the
user (Castellano et al., 2009; Peters et al., 2009). This capability is particularly important for sus-
tained interactions where the user can easily become distracted or disengaged. Any strategy to reen-
gage the user should start by detecting signs of disengagement. Other important social signals that
are relevant for a user-oriented agent to detect are cognitive load, turn taking, frustrations, politeness
and disagreement. Advances in behavioral signal processing offer opportunity to infer these cues
from multimodal sensors, improving the characterization of the user in the interaction (Narayanan
and Georgiou, 2013; Vinciarelli et al., 2009). New developments in this area will facilitate the im-
plementation of more intentional human-like strategies that aim to increase the engagement of the
users, leading to better systems.
5.2 User Modeling
Accounting for author/speaker variations has been shown to be useful in many NLP tasks, including
sentiment analysis (V olkova et al., 2013), comment recommendation (Agarwal et al., 2011), and
machine translation (Mirkin et al., 2015). In conversational systems, user modeling has a long his-
tory (Zukerman and Litman, 2001). Systems have focused on different aspects of users, e.g., the
expertise level of the user in a speciﬁc domain (Hovy, 1987), the user’s intent and plan (Moore and
Paris, 1992) and the user’s personality (DeVault et al., 2014; Fung et al., 2016). The Alexa Prize
challenge inspired several efforts to leverage user information in the dialog policy, e.g. (Bowden
et al., 2019). User modeling has also been employed for personalized topic suggestion in Alexa
Prize socialbots, using a pre-deﬁned mapping between personality types and topics (Fang et al.,
2017), a conditional random ﬁeld sequence model with hand-crafted user and context features ((Ah-
17

--- Page 18 ---
madvand et al., 2018)), or a weighted combination of latent modes with weights computed based
on a neural representation of the utterance (Cheng et al., 2019). Modeling speakers with continuous
embeddings for neural conversation models is also studied in (Li et al., 2016). Directly or indi-
rectly, recognizing emotion, engagement and other social signals can contribute to understanding a
user more globally.
5.3 Recognizing user knowledge, mental states, theory-of-mind
The complexity and sophistication of (spoken) language tends to be masked by the apparent ease
with which we, as human beings, use it. As a consequence, engineered solutions are often dominated
by a somewhat naive perspective involving the coding and decoding of messages passing from one
brain (the sender) to another brain (the receiver). In reality, language is better viewed as an emergent
property of the dynamic coupling between cognitive units that serves to facilitate distributed sense-
making through cooperative behaviors. Furthermore, the contemporary view is that language is
based on the co-evolution of two key traits - ostensive-inferential communication and recursive
mind-reading - including Theory-of-Mind (Scott-Phillips, 2014).
These perspectives on language not only place strong emphasis on the importance of prag-
matics (Bar-On, 2017), but they are also founded on an implicit assumption that interlocutors are
conspeciﬁcs, and hence share signiﬁcant priors. Indeed, evidence suggests that people draw on rep-
resentations of their own abilities expressed as predictive models in order to interpret the behaviours
of others, and this is thought to be a key enabler for efﬁcient recursive mind-reading and hence for
language-based interaction.
So, if (spoken) language interaction between human beings is grounded through shared expe-
riences, representations and priors, to what extent is it possible to construct a technology that is
intended to replace one of the participants? There will be an inevitable mismatch between the ca-
pabilities of the two partners, and coupled ostensive recursive mind-reading (i.e. full language)
cannot emerge. Hence there may be a fundamental limit to the language-based interaction that can
take place between humans and artiﬁcial agents (Moore, 2017). These are issues that need to be
investigated.
5.4 Agent Presentation
The user may be highly inﬂuenced by the way the agent presents itself, in terms of willingness to
interact, style of interaction, and evaluation of the interaction. The agents self-presentation includes
aspects of identity, such as name, backstory and job/role, language usage, including word choice,
utterance structure, and linguistic register, and, in multi-modal settings, the voice and physical ap-
pearance. Some common goals for agent-presentation include:
• One that is familiar to the user, to set expectations for the interaction based on the familiar
associations
• One that will engage the user and make interaction more attractive
• One that will inspire trust in the information conveyed by the agent
• One that will set up appropriate affordances to make clear what the agent can or cannot do
(well).
18

--- Page 19 ---
Some of these goals may be in conﬂict with each other. E.g., a highly familiar and/or engaging
personality might attract the user initially but might inﬂuence the user to assume that the system is
more capable and able to handle more complex interaction than it actually can. Another conﬂict is
whether the agent should follow a very simple protocol (always using the same language construc-
tion for the same function) or have more varied interaction. The former may be easier for users to
learn and adapt to, but will be more boring and perhaps off putting in its redundancy. The latter will
be more engaging and human-like, but may lead to more problems if users assume that they can say
anything to an agent with only limited understanding abilities. It may be desirable to adapt the agent
presentation to the desires of the user as to their ideal interlocutor (e.g. selection of voice, register,
gender, age, human-ness, appearance, clothing,...)
One important issue concerns the role of language in human-agent interaction. For example,
studies into the usage of smart assistants suggest that, far from engaging in a promised natural
‘conversational’ interaction, users tend to resort to formulaic language and focus on a handful of
niche applications which work for them (Moore, 2017). Given the pace of technological develop-
ment, it might be expected that the capabilities of such devices will improve steadily, but according
to Phillips (2006) there is a habitability gap in which usability drops as ﬂexibility increases.
It has been hypothesized that the habitability gap is a manifestation of the uncanny valley ef-
fect whereby a near human-looking artefact (such as a humanoid robot) can trigger feelings of
eeriness and repulsion (Mori et al., 2012). In particular, a Bayesian model of the uncanny valley
effect (Moore, 2012) reveals that it can be caused by misaligned perceptual cues. Hence, a device
with an inappropriate voice can create unnecessary confusion in a user. For example, the use of
human-like voices for artiﬁcial devices encourages users to overestimate their linguistic and cogni-
tive capabilities.
The Bayesian model of the uncanny valley effect suggests that the habitability gap can only
be avoided if the visual, vocal, behavioral and cognitive affordances of an artefact are aligned.
Given that the state-of-the-art in these areas varies signiﬁcantly, this means that the capabilities of
an artiﬁcial agent should be determined by the affordance with the lowest capability (Moore, 2017;
Wilson and Moore, 2017. In other words, emulating a human is a recipe for failure, rather it is better
to be a good machine than a bad person (Balentine, 2007).
5.5 Agent-User Relationship
It is useful for the system to adapt to different types of users. At the same time, users will be adapting
to their understanding of how the system works and what seems to work well (even sometimes
inappropriately, e.g. hyperarticulation of words, which is not well covered in a speech recognizers
acoustic model), or they may be changing their needs and use of the system as they learn more
about its capabilities. In particular, a user who is interacting with the system for the ﬁrst time may
need a lot of guidance in terms of explanations, examples, enumerated choices at various stages.
More expert users will not need as much of this kind of help and may ﬁnd it annoying and wasting
time. A user-focused system should adapt to the level of expertise of the user, which includes being
able to use and understand language that the user is comfortable with, providing explanations to
novices and short-cuts to experts. Entraining to the user (using the same words, prosodic patterns
or gestures, in an agent) may be part of the strategy to achieve this. For example, in the context of
educational spoken dialog, a robot that both entrained to and spoke socially with students resulted
in signiﬁcantly more student learning (Lubold et al., 2018). Converseley, dialog systems have also
19

--- Page 20 ---
taken advantage of user entrainment to the system by making lexical, syntactic, and prosodic system
utterance choices believed to be more conducive to system success (Stoyanchev and Stent, 2009;
Fandrianto and Eskenazi, 2012; Lopes et al., 2013). It may also be useful for the agent to use
strategies to encourage other types of change in user behavior, though ethical issues will arise here.
Intentional actions such as these must be carefully assessed for their utility. The agent should
also be adaptive to the level of communication problems; e.g. in a noisy environment, it may
be helpful to have shorter utterances and more explicit feedback of what was understood, and/or
giving only summary information rather than more elaborated context. Incremental understanding
and generation are likely to important for the more advanced turn-taking necessary for effective
communication.
The agent-user relationship becomes much more challenging for scenarios that involve multiple
agents and/or users. When in a group setting, should the agent address the group or an individual,
and which user model(s) should be active? In contexts with changing group membership, the same
person can play different roles or have different expertise as the groups change, which impacts the
user model for that person. Just as behavior of an individual user can be affected by emotion and
background knowledge, the interactions of people in a group are affected by group social dynamics
and their knowledge of the expertise of each other. How do the agents contribute to group dy-
namics, and to what extent can/should agents aim to change group dynamics? For example, when
pairs of students working together were dynamically supported by a dialog agent, student learn-
ing improved (Kumar et al., 2007). When there are multiple agents, how do they coordinate their
communication and efforts to build user models?
5.6 Recommendations
The challenges with user variability that current systems face and the potential for future multi-party
applications suggest the following areas will be important for future research:
• Move research from generic, static views of the user, the agent and their relationship to per-
sonalized and dynamic models; and
• Move from human-computer to multi-party, where the agent learns about different humans
and understands it specialized expertise relative to other agents In order to ensure that research
is addressing problems relevant to these issues, it is important that research emphasize sce-
narios that involve longer conversations (beyond 1-2 turns) and/or more frequent interactions
from the same user or groups of users.
6. Building Dialogue Systems in Low-Resource Conditions
6.1 Introduction
Current commercial technologies for natural language processing have come to rely predominantly
on supervised learning. This requires impressive quantities of gold standard, annotated data for
training, tuning, and evaluation. However, there are many scenarios and applications where there
simply is not enough annotated data for system construction when using supervised learning. Con-
sider, for example, multimodal input data streams that can be collected by an agent that communi-
cates with human users. It is equipped for both real-time capture and generation of audio, video,
and motion data. Datasets recorded during interactive sessions may vary in quantity and quality by
20

--- Page 21 ---
channel, and they may not be synchronized or sampled at similar rates across the channels. This
variation complicates the conversion of data into shared representations for downstream cross-modal
alignment, annotation, and analysis (see a detailed discussion in Section 7). Furthermore, even if
the multimodal data that has been collected is abundant, the annotated portion may not be sufﬁcient
for supervised learning in system construction. Annotated data may be limited due to the time and
cost of ground-truthing multimodal data for new domains, new tasks, or new languages. And the
limited availability of multimodal data, that contains identiﬁable information (face, voice, language
spoken) may be due to privacy issues (see detailed discussions in Section 9). To arrive at a def-
inition of future research directions, this section ﬁrst examines current state-of-the-art approaches
under different scenarios.
6.2 Current Approaches
The conditions of resources can be categorized along along two dimensions: 1) the amount of in-
domain data and 2) the amount of annotated data. Table 6.2 shows the possible combinations.
No Data Limited Data Abundant Data
No annotations Case 1 Case 2 Case 4
Limited annotations X Case 3 Case 5
Abundant annotations X X Case 6 (”Solved”)
Table 2: Current approaches for in-domain and annotated data
6.2.1 Learning when there is no data (column 1)
Wizard-of-Oz: Many intelligent agent projects, whether in academia or industry, begin with an
idea, but no available relevant data (Column 1). To bootstrap these projects, researchers typically
resort to proxy methods for data collection such as Wizard-of-Oz (WoZ) systems (Dahlb ¨ack et al.,
1993; Okamoto et al., 2001; Budzianowski et al., 2018), where a human operator plays the role of
the as-yet-non-existent system, interacting with a human user. These interfaces are challenging to
build, involving critical decisions that are likely to impact the rest of the project. The key trade-offs
faced by WoZ system designers concern the information available to the wizard and the amount of
freedom given to a wizard to formulate their responses to the user. For instance, the wizard may
have full access to direct audio and video of the user, ensuring accurate perception of the users
actions. Alternately, the wizard may only see written transcripts of the users speech since output
by the systems ASR includes errors. This more accurately represents the type of input stream that
an intelligent agent would need to handle. Other arrangements also exist: they could be allowed to
speak or type freely without constraint on the content or form of their response, or they might be
restricted to select actions or phrases from a limited predeﬁned set presented to them, for example,
as buttons on a screen. In general, the need to get a correct response to the user in as close to real
time as possible will inﬂuence interface design choices.
Typically, the wizard or wizards knowledge is relied upon to manage the content and pacing of
the dialog. The users interacting with the WoZ are asked to perform a given task communicating
with WoZ interface, but are not informed that a human is behind the curtain performing the work of
one or more of the systems components (for example, dialogue management, speech recognition,
speech generation, natural language understanding, natural language generation, reasoner). Thus the
21

--- Page 22 ---
user together with the wizard generates the data that is needed to train the models for automating
those components.
Unfortunately, WoZ data collection is typically complex, time-consuming, and expensive (Rieser
and Lemon, 2008). If users in academic or government studies provide personally identifying in-
formation, there are additional requirements that apply to the experimental design protocols, as reg-
ulated by an institutional review board (IRB). Thus WoZ systems are generally limited in scale and
often used only in very early stages of agent development (Munteanu and Boldea, 2000). Crowd-
sourcing has recently been used to address these limitations (Lasecki et al., 2013; Huang, 2018).
This increases the scale of the WoZ paradigm toward large numbers of wizards (i.e. crowd workers)
and thus users.
Rule-based Frameworks Another approach to bootstrapping a research system when no train-
ing data is available is to construct a fully-automated system by relying on hand-crafted rules and
manually-selected datasets to test those rules in the process of evaluating the full system (Larsson
and Traum, 2000; Bohus and Rudnicky, 2009; Zhao, 2016). This approach offers the near-term ben-
eﬁts of being both more immediately scalable (though ﬁnding enough users may not be easy) and
more amenable to data collection for machine learning since it relies on some amount of explainable
machine representation of knowledge to perform its task. The main issues for such hand-crafted sys-
tems are that they are very costly to build. Developers must combine a large number of complex
technologies. Yet they also permit a very wide range of user experiences. This makes the data too
highly variable for the eventual training of machine learning models for system components. Often
research teams do not collectively have the range of skills, resources, or time to develop and apply
the methods needed for such iterative design to create operational, high quality systems.
6.2.2 Learning from limited data (column 2)
Machine learning methods, especially supervised deep learning models require a tremendous amount
of training data to reach good performance. As a result, when only limited in-domain (either an-
notated or unannotated) data is available, the direct application of supervised learning falls short.
Therefore, a rule-based framework is still one of the top choices when creating intelligent agents
with only limited data. Existing research has explored the following approaches to empower an
agent when faced with limited data.
Integrate rules into learning systems : rules can be combined with statistics to improve the
robustness of a dialog manager or natural language understanding module. Lison and Kennington
(2016) combines probabilistic rules with Bayesian learning in a dialog manager so that the prob-
ability that an if statement is triggered is learned from data rather than set by manual heuristics.
Rules can also be applied to dialog state tracking (Wang and Lemon, 2013; Sun et al., 2014). This
signiﬁcantly improves performance in low resource settings. Recently rules have shown promise
when integrated with end-to-end dialog models (Williams et al., 2017; Razumovskaia and Eske-
nazi, 2019), thus reducing the amount of training samples that are needed needed.
Transfer Learning: another well-studied approach is to leverage data from other domains and
enable knowledge transfer from models trained in a source domain to a target domain. Related
research areas include transfer learning and zero (few)-shot learning. Chen et al. (2016) developed
an intent classiﬁer that can predict new intent labels that are not included in the training data. Bapna
et al. (2017) extended the idea to the slot-ﬁlling module in order to track novel slot types. Both
papers leverage a natural language description of the label (intent or slot-type) in order to learn
22

--- Page 23 ---
a semantic embedding of the label space. Then, given any new labels, the model can still make
predictions. Moreover, there has been extensive work on learning domain-adaptable dialog policy
by ﬁrst training a dialog policy on K previous domains, and then testing the policy on the K+1st new
domain. Gasic and Young (2014) used the Gaussian Process with cross-domain kernel functions.
The resulting policy can leverage the experience from other domains to make educated decisions in
a new one. Finally, zero-shot learning has also been applied to natural language generation. Wen
et al. (2016) used delexicalized data to synthetically generate NLG training data for a new domain.
Zhao and Eskenazi (2018) proposed an action matching algorithm to transfer knowledge of an end-
to-end generation-based dialog system. This allows an end-to-end system to operate in a completely
new domain.
6.2.3 Learning from limited annotated data (column 3)
The third case (column 3) refers to when there is a vast amount of data in the same language or
even the same domain, but there is not enough annotation of that data to train supervised models for
natural language understanding or state tracking. For example, there is a large amount of human-
human call center data, however, much of it is not annotated. In this setting, current state-of-the-art
approach includes:
Unsupervised end-to-end dialog system uses end-to-end (E2E) dialog models that directly
train a generative model on top of conversational data. Different from modular systems (Zhao and
Eskenazi, 2016), E2E dialog agents do not require annotation or system dialog acts for natural
language understanding (NLU). E2E dialog systems can be divided into generative models (Vinyals
and Le, 2015) and retrieval-based systems (Lowe et al., 2015). However, despite promisng results,
E2E systems as them today suffer from the following limitations. Signiﬁcant amount effort has been
invested to improve E2E dialog models. For example, generative models are known to generate dull
rather than relevant responses. A number of solutions have been proposed such as maximum mutual-
information training (Li et al., 2015), latent variable models (Zhao et al., 2017), etc. A second
limitation for E2E dialog systems is that they cannot easily interface with an external structured
data source. This prohibits them from serving information from a database (Zhao and Eskenazi,
2016; Dhingra et al., 2016; Williams et al., 2017). A third open-ended research question for E2E
system is evaluation. Since there is no human annotation available, systems cannot be compared by
using standard metrics, like accuracy. Most current methods compare the system response against
human reference responses. Therefore, current mainstream metrics, e.g. BLEU (Papineni et al.,
2002), correlate poorly with actual system performance (Liu et al., 2016).
Representation learning & Semi-supervised learning In case 5, the state-of-the-art methods
used to create intelligent agents are unsupervised representation learning and semi-supervised learn-
ing. Examples of pre-trained language models include BERT (Devlin et al., 2018) and RoBERTa (Liu
et al., 2019). First a language model is trained with self-supervised objectives, for example mask-
ing language models on massive amounts of unannotated data. Then the resulting representation is
ﬁne-tuned on a small set of labelled data.
6.3 Recommendations
Currently, machine learning approaches for dialog agents still struggle in the low resource setting,
yet there are many promising research venue that worth of exploring. We recommend investing in
the following directions in order to enable practical framework for building future dialog agents.
23

--- Page 24 ---
• A systematic way to introduce prior knowledge as an input to ML models.
• Community effort to make pretraining models well-documented, thoroughly tested and widely
available.
• Open-source, robust and reusable tools for solved tasks, e.g. wizard-of-oz interface, data
collection tools, human evaluation platform etc.
• A principled approach for system design, data collection, resources management, and evalu-
ation for new AI projects with limited/no data
• New machine learning methods that can better utilize knowledge from other domains or unan-
notated data.
• Shared tasks that standardize the evaluation of dialog agents under low resources setting, and
regular benchmark comparison across various methods.
7. Multimodal, grounded and situated interaction
7.1 Introduction
Human communication is, by nature, multimodal, where interlocutors make use of a combination of
communicative systems (modalities), each serving as physical carriers of messages (Bunt, 1995). In
situated human dialogues, several human senses contribute to the overall experience (sight, hearing,
touch, and smell). In human-human interaction, the various available modalities may be commu-
nicated sequentially or in parallel, carrying information that may be redundant or complementary,
and the content may be transmitted deliberately or unconsciously (Turk, 2014). The voice carries
both verbal and non-verbal information, where the latter may be transmitted by a combination of
voice quality and utterance melody that convey the speakers personality traits, affective state, and
willingness to talk. The face also carries signiﬁcant information in situated interaction: an active
listener may use facial gestures, as well as vocal cues, while the speaker is talking, to indicate their
engagement along with nods of their head, for example, so as to provide listening feedback with fa-
cial expressions that convey emotional state (such as level of certainty or understanding). Eye gaze
is yet another source of communication during dialogue that is fundamental in social and situated
interaction; listeners may rely on it to assess the speakers focus of attention or to regulate speaker
shifts. In situated interactions, joint visual attention is the process by which speakers coordinate
what they are attending to, ensuring that they focus on the same object of interest. Mutual gaze, in
particular, occurs when interlocutors look at each other during face-to-face interactions. This type
of eye gaze has been shown to differentiate roles in dialogue: it has been reported that people look
at the other party in an interaction nearly twice as much (75%) when listening, as when they are
speaking (41%) (Vertegaal et al., 2001).
Computers have been historically uni-modal, with the earliest computer input and output dis-
plays provided by teletype machines that were limited to the visual modality of text. With the
advent of GUI-based computer interfaces, the range of modalities available to users was extended
to accept their input by mouse and to generate output for them by graphical interfaces and audio
channels. The commercial success of smartphones in the last decade has led to rapid development of
multimodal-multisensory interfaces that now combine both active input (speech, touch, typing) that
users are aware of, with the less obvious, or possibly covert, input signals that built-in sensors detect
24

--- Page 25 ---
and that users may not be aware of, such as gaze, location, acceleration, proximity, and tilt (Oviatt
and Cohen, 2015). Today, smartphones also include biometric sensors that can identify the user
(facial recognition or ﬁngerprint readers) and new sensors that can track human movements (RGBD
cameras for face tracking, radar for gesture recognition). In the future, user-oriented intelligent
agents will, similarly, be constructed to be coupled to an individual (via smartphones or wearables,
placed directly on an owners body) or to other locations (via smart speakers or social robots). For
such intelligent agents to engage more extensively in situated interactions with dialogue partners,
they will need to be equipped with a wide range of sensors that feed built-in analytic components
that may seek to predict or infer the emotional states and physical actions of humans with which
they are communicating.
Truly user-centered agents will have to be built with communicative abilities that enable them
to interact with people, and possibly also with other robots, in an intuitive and socially acceptable
manner. Social signal processing is a growing research area that aims to endow machines with the
ability to sense and interpret human social behaviors, such as turn regulation, emotion, personality,
dominance and rapport (Vinciarelli et al., 2009). The multimodal behavioral cues that these systems
will need to interpret, in conjunction with the users utterances, include: vocal behavior (e.g. prosody
and voice quality), face and eye behavior (e.g. facial expressions and gaze patterns), gesture and
posture (e.g. hand gestures and posture), proxemics (e.g. distance and F-formation).
If domestic social robots are to share physical space with humans, they will need to be able to
navigate among people, understand people’s physical actions, and understand the signiﬁcance (to
humans) of objects that occupy their shared, common environment. In collaborative interactions,
human participants engage in constructing and maintaining a shared conception of a problem at
hand (Dillenbourg et al., 1996). They do this by constantly establishing, maintaining, and repairing
common ground (Clark and Schaefer, 1989). In this process of grounding, the listener relates to
what has been said and conveys that they are following with questions, clariﬁcations, and feedback.
Sub-tasks within this (common) grounding process involve joint attention, engagement and turn-
taking. Together, their verbal and non-verbal feedback communicate their willingness and ability
to (a) continue the interaction, (b) perceive the message, (c) understand the message, and (d) accept
the message, including signaling attitudinal reactions.
In situated interaction and robotics in particular, there is a distinct, relevant concept referred
to as symbol grounding (Coradeschi et al., 2013). A special case of this is perceptual anchoring,
which is the process of connecting higher level symbolic information, such as words, to physical
objects or their sensor data (Harnad, 1990). Collaborative robots will need to be able to engage
concurrently in both types of grounding, that is, maintaining conversational common ground with
interlocutors and performing perceptual anchoring in their environment. Robots that simulate joint
attention mechanisms have been widely shown to help disambiguate spatial references by making
object referral appear more natural, pleasant and efﬁcient (Mehlmann et al., 2014). Robots involved
in tasks where they engage with objects or their environment, will need to, at appropriate times,
switch their gaze to their conversational partners. This coordination is essential for an appropriate
perception of mutual gaze, but it is also an essential step for guiding the conversational partner’s
attention and establishing the common focus of joint attention. The simple establishment of mean-
ingful and timely mutual gaze can lead to extended interactions and an increase in human attention
when interacting with robots (Ito et al., 2004).
25

--- Page 26 ---
7.2 Research Themes
7.2.1 Levels of representation / abstraction / granularity / alignment / incrementality
An important research endeavor is to develop foundational methods to analyze, model, and repre-
sent multimodal information, whether it is the input to, or the output of, user-oriented agents. These
methods are characterized as foundational since they underlie the technical framework for informa-
tion encoding and decoding that is essential to many applications and research topics. The unique
and challenging aspect of multimodal research is the heterogeneity of multimodal sources of data
and the challenges in integrating and interpreting such heterogeneous data coming from multiple
modalities. Each modality has its own characteristics that have to be considered (Maragos et al.,
2008). For example, images are 2-dimensional (or sometimes even 3-dimensional), while speech
signals are 1-dimensional. The way we describe the visual appearance of a bird or another animal
will be quite different from the way we describe the sounds they produce. Creating computer sys-
tems that are able to make sense of such multimodal data entails many fundamental problems that
we group into ﬁve main classes, following the taxonomy of (Baltru ˇsaitis et al., 2018): representa-
tion, alignment, fusion, translation, and co-learning in Figure 7.2.1.
Representation: Learning how a computer can internally represent the heterogeneous data in
multiple modalities. These computational representations should be designed for both efﬁcient
modeling and better visualization. For example, a joint representation that captures how a person
both looks and sounds when they are happy will allow computer systems to better recognize human
emotions than systems that treat such visual and acoustic modalities of data independently. These
joint representations will be most efﬁcient when they can take advantage of the naturally-occurring
dependencies between modalities. Another design objective is to improve the interpretability of
multimodal data. By identifying commonalities and differences across multimodal data, we seek
multimodal representations that best bridge the gap between continuous versus discrete data, and
between statistical versus symbolic data.
Alignment: Establishing spatial and temporal connections between events across modalities.
For example, when reading the caption of an image, alignment is the process where words are
grounded to speciﬁc objects or groups of objects in the image. Other examples of alignment in-
clude automatic video capturing, and identifying the acoustic source in a video. One challenge
in alignment is dealing with data streams that have been recorded at different sampling rates (e.g.,
continuous signals versus discrete events). Alignments may thus require deﬁning a similarity metric
between modalities to identify the connection points across the streams. The alignments may need
to be anchored temporally, as when we align the audio track and the images in a video, or they may
need to be anchored spatial, as when we try to morph between two face images.
Fusion: Combining information from two or more distinct sources to uncover or predict a pat-
tern or trait of interest. Examples of multimodal fusion include multimodal emotion recognition,
audio-visual speech recognition, and audio-visual speaker veriﬁcation. The sources of information
found across modalities may be redundant which helps increase robustness, or they may be comple-
mentary which often helps increase accuracy. The challenges are multiple since, a priori, it may not
be known in advance which sources will need to be synchronized, or even whether they have the
same sampling rate. For any source, some modalities may be incomplete with missing data, while
some modalities may provide continuous streams of data, but other modalities may be intrinsically
discrete in providing data for interpretation about given events.
26

--- Page 27 ---
Translation: Transformation, mapping from one modality into another. Examples include
speech-driven animation and text-based image retrieval. The foundational methods learn the re-
lationship between streams of data, capturing their dependencies. The goal of translation can be
generative in nature, creating a new instance previously not observed in one modality, based on
given information from another modality. The goal can also be for building descriptive models,
where having learned inter-modality dependencies, one modality can be used to increase the char-
acterization of another modality (e.g., describing the information conveyed in an image).
Co-learning: Transferring knowledge from one modality to help with the predicting or model-
ing task in another modality. Co-learning examples are more technically complex in nature, building
on established within-modality processing expertise. Co-learning aims to leverage the rich informa-
tion available in one modality, for the learning of another modality, which may have only limited
resources (e.g., small number of examples with limited annotations or noisy input). Examples of co-
learning algorithms include co-training, zero-shot learning and concept learning. Recent examples
include: the use of information extraction in text processing to guide entity detection in computer
vision algorithms, such as for visual object recognition, when an implicit instrument argument can
be inferred for an event mentioned in a caption accompanying an image (Subburathinam et al.,
2019) and multitask learning that exploits a text-guided semantic space to select the most relevant
visual objects for novel visual activity recognition (Eum et al., 2019).
Figure 1: Taxonomy for multimodal learning.
The challenges that arise in multimodal processing may involve various combinations of these
ﬁve categories. Importantly, cross-cutting research in these areas will open opportunities to better
understand and interpret multimodal data across domains, providing resources and tools for wider
sharing across the interdisciplinary community of researchers. These tools may be generic, for
working across a range of problems, or they may be speciﬁc to given problems or modalities.
7.2.2 Agent Input: Information Fusion
Multimodal fusion is a core requirement in advanced user-oriented agents that are able to under-
stand explicit and implicit information conveyed by users. Users display important information
through various communication channels including their speech, facial expressions, hand gestures,
and body posture. The information is not uniformly conveyed across time and modality. Studies
have revealed a complex temporal interplay between communicative messages including lexical,
27

--- Page 28 ---
semantic, emotional, and idiosyncratic traits (Busso and Narayanan, 2007a). This interplay has also
been observed across communicative channels, where less constrained modalities are used to convey
communicative messages (Busso and Narayanan, 2007b). This temporal and spatial interplay be-
tween communicative messages and channels has direct implications on how a user-oriented agent
should interact with users, sensing, fusing and interpreting information obtained across multiple
modalities.
From a machine learning perspective, multimodal fusion can be viewed as the process where
features from different modalities are mapped into a common representation that is trained to max-
imize the performance of a classiﬁcation or regression task (Baltru ˇsaitis et al., 2018). Recent ad-
vances in deep learning has resulted in powerful embeddings that encode numeric (e.g., speech,
images) and symbolic (e.g., text) modalities. These embeddings can be systematically combined,
leveraging the redundant and complementary information provided across modalities. We can ob-
tain more robust models in this way, especially when the reliability of some modalities is affected,
when some information is missing, or when a disagreement exists across a subset of the modalities.
For example, the users face may be a more communicative channel to convey positive or negative
emotional traits than their speech. On occasion however, occlusions or non-frontal views of the user
may lead to unreliable or missing data. During those segments, using speech or lexical informa-
tion alone may yield more robust predictions. This example shows that, when the data is available,
leveraging redundant information conveyed across modalities can increase the performance of a
system.
The challenge for a user-oriented agent is to interpret sensing information from the user coming
from multiple modalities, taking into consideration the underlying complexity in the way humans
interact and communicate with each other. The architecture of the models should be robust to
partial information. For example, when a user is listening to the agent and extracting lexical infor-
mation from the agents spoken message, the user will be most likely to limit their vocal responses to
backchannel information. During those segments, their facial expressions may be more informative
about their cognitive and emotional states than their vocal signals. By contrast, when the user is
speaking, the information in their facial expressions will be less discriminative for tasks such as
the recognition of emotion, mood or personality traits due to the speech articulatory movements
that affect the facial appearance. Likewise, as multimodal databases with rich labels for relevant
tasks are often limited, we should be able to train models with unimodal datasets that have partial
information. Ideally, we should also build unsupervised formulations to leverage found rich mul-
timodal data without labels. The architecture of the intelligent agent should also be able to assess
the expertise of each modality, by learning from the data the appropriate weights to combine multi-
modal information. Advances in multimodal processing that address these challenges will facilitate
improved user-oriented agents that are more aware of the user and can respond accordingly.
7.3 Agent Output: Coordination of Multimodal Agent Behaviors
Multimodal agents not only need to perceive multiple modalities, they should also be able to ac-
tively transmit information across various modalities so as to express their own intentions and in-
ternal states to their human users. Such multimodal output generation presents both challenges and
opportunities that fall into two broad areas: human-like multimodal rendering and context-aware
modality combination.
28

--- Page 29 ---
The ﬁrst area generally focuses on animating embodied conversational agents, whether virtual
or robotic. Originating with early research on talking heads (Cosatto and Graf, 2000; Massaro,
2003), this research also includes gestures and full-body animation of virtual agents (Cassell et al.,
2001). A large amount of this work focuses on realism and synchronization of several modalities.
For example, Ng-Thow-Hing et al. (2010) present a model for generating and synchronizing hand
gestures from arbitrary text to accompany a spoken rendering of the same text. More recently,
Takeuchi et al. (2017) have investigated the use of deep learning techniques to predict hand gestures
directly from the speech signal (MFCC), albeit with limited success. Finally, recent work (and
media hype) focused on deep fakes showcases the application of modern deep learning technologies
to multimodal rendering of humans (Suwajanakorn et al., 2017; Chan et al., 2019). While such
technology can now achieve near perfect photo-realism and multimodal synchronization, much less
is known about the relationships between various modalities and concurrent conversational features,
such as the speakers intent or inner state. Earlier work from Cassell et al. (2001) and Traum (2008)
has explored models of embodied conversations and their implications on multimodal rendering of
virtual humans. More research on these topics would be greatly beneﬁcial to our understanding of
both human-human and human-machine communication.
The second area of multimodal output generation concerns the use of different modalities and
affordances to accommodate different environments, situations, or user tasks and needs. For exam-
ple, Costa and Duarte (2011) describe a multimodal ﬁssion module that adapts the presentation of
content through video, audio and haptic outputs for impaired users. Teixeira et al. (2011) introduce
a general architecture for adaptive multimodal ﬁssion and its application to a tele-rehabilitation ser-
vice for the elderly. Both works highlight the potential of adaptive multimodal output generation to
better accommodate a wider range of user populations, by incorporating design ﬂexibility for more
inclusive technology.
In addition, research is needed to better understand the effect of combining the generation of
natural language and visual information on communication. One possible direction is to combine
deep learning approaches to Natural Language Generation with image or multimodal representa-
tions (e.g. those used by image captioning work such as (Xu et al., 2015) to build general models
that can generate multimodal output, based on the agents internal semantic representations.
7.3.1 Incrementality
When humans engage in face-to-face spoken interaction, listeners usually provide brief audio-visual
feedback cues while their conversational partner is talking. Such listener feedback may occur con-
currently in multiple forms, such as head nods, eyebrow movements, or facial expressions (visually)
or conventionalized, vocal tokens of agreements (verbally). By continuously providing feedback on
what is being said, the active listener participates in the collaborative communicative process, help-
ing establish and maintain common ground. Todays state-of-the-art dialogue systems are neither
receptive, nor able to change their output, while in the process of speaking, should the listener
convey confusion, irritation, or other emotions as signals that should be addressed. If we want to
be able to build spoken dialogue systems that can achieve the responsiveness and ﬂexibility found
in human-human interaction, then it is essential that they process information incrementally rather
than in utterance-sized chunks (Dohsaka and Shimazu, 1997; Gervits and Scheutz, 2018). A con-
versational dialogue agent has to be able to decide: when to take a turn (controlling the ﬂoor as
the next speaker), when to provide verbal feedback (without taking the ﬂoor), and when to remain
29

--- Page 30 ---
silent. To do so, the agent must predict the end of the human speakers utterances, tracking the tim-
ing and pacing of turns in the conversation. The agent must also decide if its feedback should be
verbal or non-verbal (head nod, eyebrow raise or smile). If it decides to produce verbal feedback,
then it has to be able to decide if it should use a feedback token (such as okay, mhm) or if it should
reprise fragments of what it has heard from the user to show positive evidence that it is, in effect,
paying attention , echoing conversational content by way of a word or phrase that has been picked
up. Finally, it has to select the prosodic realization of the feedback token to convey the appropriate
affective state (Neiberg et al., 2013).
Multimodal systems for agents need to be developed according to principles such as Inclusive
Design or Design for All to be accommodating in situations where users present with varying levels
of physical or cognitive abilities. According to (Obrenovic et al., 2007), there are two sources
of constraints in human-computer interaction: user- related constraints (such as user features, user
preferences, and user state) and external constraints (such as device, environment, or social context).
Furthermore these constraints may interact and change during an interaction. For example, the level
of environmental noise may increase and trigger (reﬂexively) changes in the speakers output from
normal to lombard speech, or cause the speaker to add in or switch to gestures as visual output.
Another change in external constraints may occur in the social context, such as when the number
of people could increase from one to several, requiring the system to switch from spoken to written
interaction in order to preserve privacy.
7.4 Recommendations
The range of modalities used in todays dialog systems should be broadened, for example by includ-
ing prosody, haptics, or motion capture as input modalities, or virtual or physical avatars or varying
visual stimuli as output modalities. These additional modalities enrich our understanding of the
users, improve user modeling by having a more holistic view of their behaviors, and augment their
capability by creating new ways for users to interact with the machine.
By creating a broader range of modalities, there is a need to produce data sets covering these
modalities and sharing them with the community to foster interdisciplinary and cross-institutional
collaboration which is paramount as the complexity of the involved technologies grows. Through
the organization of open shared tasks as well as challenges and competitions held at conferences
and workshops, multimodal dialog research will be further promoted, advanced, and accelerated.
Situated dialog should play a central role in future dialog systems research, especially consid-
ering the contributions of multimodality. For example, an exchange of physical objects between
humans and an avatar as a coupled transaction requires not only spoken interaction, but also com-
puter vision, recognition of objects and activities, ﬁne-motor control, and situated reasoning.
The advances of incremental speech processing, for example incremental speech recognition,
spoken language understanding, or speech synthesis, should be generalized to incremental multi-
modality. This is especially effective since several additional modalities, such as visual input, are
continuous in nature, compared to spoken dialog which is often regarded as discrete, i.e. speaker-
turn-based.
30

--- Page 31 ---
8. Robust and Flexible Dialog Management
8.1 Current state of the art
In general, current intelligent agents target speciﬁc tasks and relevant user groups. They are quite
brittle and inﬂexible, refusing to understand the user who is not aware of the commands the agent
expects or of the type of language that the agent supports.
Both industry and the research community have an interest in moving intelligent agents to multi-
domain, multi-task, multi-topic conversational agents. But, perhaps surprisingly, even relatively
simple tasks that require linking capabilities from two existing agents are hard to support. For
example, consider a task as simple as set a timer for cooking an egg.
• User: Alexa, set a timer.
• Alexa: For how long?
• User: How long does it take to hard-boil an egg? ← To get this information, Alexa has to talk
to Google search, ﬁnd the amount of time, return the string from that search, reformulate it to
a time, and ﬁll the slot in the timer task)
The challenge here is to interleave any structured task for which an explicit task structure exists
with the results from search. There are many similar tasks, where constraints or information from
multiple existing systems need to be integrated, such as wanting to check what the weather is going
to be while booking a restaurant and deciding whether it will be possible to sit outside for dinner.
Thus the steps in the process are:
• combine an agent based on discrete information, with one based on search, which could
retrieve any kind of answer.
• try to get two components to talk together
• integrate different data sources for the same task
Users often have slightly different goals or preferences than the ones that the agent is designed
to support because they may not know what the underlying assumption is. This results in many
limitations for the agent. For example, most natural language understanding components in dialog
architectures assume that each utterance contains a single intent, so they may ignore additional
information if the user mentions multiple intents in a single utterance. To summarize:
• current systems are very rigid
• it is hard to truly achieve mixed initiative
• at present the impression of mixed initiative is given by doing slot ﬁlling in different orders
8.2 Desired ﬂexibility
Ideal systems should have more of the ﬂexibility that people bring to a task-oriented dialogue. When
people (e.g. a domain expert and a novice with a problem to solve) work together to ﬁnd a solution,
there is a natural sharing of initiative. Each presents contributions (e.g. candidate solutions or
nuances or context of the problem) and the other provides feedback signals of attention, perception,
31

--- Page 32 ---
understanding, and attitudinal reaction (Allwood, 1992). Either participant can send signals of
desire to speak, and can take initiative when they have something relevant to add. Many kinds of
context are used including
• What has been said recently
• The (mutually) perceivable or imaginable environment
• Mutual knowledge about the situation, including beliefs, desires, and plans
• Common-sense knowledge about likely eventualities and motivations.
These aspects of context allow for many convenient facets of dialogue that are largely missing from
human-computer dialogue:
• Allowing abbreviated or elliptical expressions to talk about salient entities and actions
• Allowing plan recognition to address the goals rather than speciﬁc mentioned actions, and
provide helpful responses that even ignore a direct request, where it can be inferred that the
requested action or information is not relevant to the goals.
Additionally, people often provide incremental and different sized contributions, where the full
contribution is often shaped by feedback from the addressee while the contribution is being ex-
pressed. E.g. signals of lack of understanding may lead to elaboration, while acting on the contribu-
tion early may signal that a description is already good enough. Signals of interest may encourage
elaboration of a topic, while signals of lack of strong interest may lead to either a change in topic or
motivation for why the topic is relevant to the addressee.
Current work is just beginning to explore dialogs that cross domains. There is great potential
to leverage assets from multiple kinds of agent activities or skills, knowledge resources, and social
dialog to create a fuller experience, however more work is needed to realize this potential. For
complex tasks, subdialogs should engage in simpler domains, but context and high-level goals must
be maintained across these sub-dialogs for a coherent whole. Novel tasks should be achievable as
a combination of simpler tasks. Social dialog should be supported in that it contributes to building
a relationship and common ground between system and user. This can appear both between and
within tasks, often combining with other tasks within the same utterance.
8.3 Recommendations
• Research should be highly interdisciplinary, including linguistics, pragmatics and reasoning
• Inference should be based on the user’s goals and beliefs
• Structured representations that support inference should be combined with neural models
dealing with unstructured text
• Research should be inspired by human dialog techniques in order to efﬁciently address others
goals. Context should be preferred to making explicit representations
• Explicit representations of context should be designed in a way that enables them to be shared
with other domains, tasks and applications
• Agents should support different user style of interaction preferences
32

--- Page 33 ---
9. Intelligent Agents as Good Actors
9.1 Introduction
Just as for artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) more generally, a host of ethical issues arise in research on
intelligent agents. Research in this area will beneﬁt from general advances in AI, but there are
also special considerations for intelligent agents and potential new research directions that are high-
lighted in this section.
9.2 Ethics issues in intelligent agent research
Since much of the current research on intelligent agents involves data-driven machine learning,
the resulting systems are susceptible to: issues of bias in the collection of data (which leads to
unintended bias in decisions); privacy issues associated with user data; and interpretability of system
decisions. The issue of privacy is a concern for deep neural networks because of their ability to
effectively memorize the data (Carlini et al., 2019). It is particularly challenging for spoken dialog
systems because a users voice is their identity. Since users can now be identiﬁed from their voices,
it is possible for their voices to be used for identity theft. This poses challenges for using cloud-
based ASR services, as well as the storing and sharing of data. Cloud-based ASR gives better
performance than on-device modules but requires transmitting the speech. Agent designers using
cloud-based services should be aware of any potential commercial use of this data and inform users.
A user-centric intelligent agent may also store information about its users to improve personalization
(meta-data, usage patterns, and so on), which raises additional issues of data security. Privacy is of
great concern for sharing both speech and text data associated with dialog, since there are currently
no strong methods for de-identiﬁcation.
Particular to intelligent agents is their interaction with human users, and so it is important for
researchers to carefully consider how the system can inﬂuence individual behavior and mental state.
In many applications, it is important for users to develop a level of trust in the system, and research
on interaction strategies to that end is important. However, since the system may make errors, it
is important that it be able to communicate uncertainty in an effective way. Passing the Turing
Test may not be an appropriate objective the user should know when they are talking to a bot.
Technology designed to deceive humans is much more susceptible to use in phishing scenarios
or other types of user manipulation. Another issue that arises during interaction with users is the
possibility of unintentionally providing incorrect information or poor advice; potential problems
need to be considered and the cost of such mistakes accounted for in system design.
Government support of intelligent agent research should focus on societal needs and challenges.
Like any technology, intelligent agents can be used for good or bad purposes. System designers
should consider the potential for a system to be used for destructive purposes, such as hate speech,
bullying or stalking. When talking to a bot, some users are uninhibited and interactions can be
highly toxic or offensive, which systems must learn to handle appropriately. Lastly, dialog research
needs to develop mechanisms for robustness to adversarial attack, which may be in the form of
biasing the data used for learning or injecting false information into a knowledge base or backend
database.
Some ethical issues are dependent on the user population and/or application scenario, but all
dialog system research will involve some subset of these issues. As such, it is important for ed-
ucational activities associated with research to include training in ethical thinking. Furthermore,
33

--- Page 34 ---
projects with outreach activities should incorporate discussion of ethical issues into their programs
to raise public awareness.
9.3 Balancing Tensions Between User Concerns and Research Advances
It is important to recognize that fully addressing these concerns limits opportunities for research.
For example, the scientiﬁc objective of research reproducibility can be inhibited by failure to share
data; however, it is very difﬁcult to share data and also to preserve privacy, as noted above. Using
paid crowd-workers rather than users with real needs may avoid privacy concerns, but questions are
then often raised about the validity of the data, given that workers may accept undesirable results
to complete their tasks more quickly. Using simulated users avoids exposing real users to system
errors in reinforcement learning, but it limits the potential to understand user variability. When
privacy concerns exclude the possibility of looking at data or listening to speech signals, it can be
much harder to diagnose and improve systems, resulting in preserving or even reinforcing biases in
system performance. If only text transcripts of speech are available and audio access is restricted,
then systems cannot explore the use of prosodic cues to engagement, sentiment, intent, and so on.
There is also a conﬂict between user modeling and the potential for bias and restriction of access
to information; personalization can be a double-edged sword. Discarding data for privacy reasons
eliminates the potential for longitudinal studies. The problem of toxic language on the web (and in
user interactions) creates a need for detecting toxicity to avoid introducing it into system behavior,
but this creates the problem of exposing unpleasant material to researchers who are annotating or
analyzing data.
These tensions underscore the importance of ethical training for dialog researchers and the need
to inform users about both risks and beneﬁts. They also create a need for creative thinking and
innovation in data collection and system evaluation to support some level of reproducibility in dialog
research.
9.4 Recommendations
Fundamental research is needed to preserve the integrity of future dialog agents and the security of
human users. It is important to recognize that future research should study not only designing better
systems, but also creating methods to protect the data. Therefore, we divide the research directions
into two folds: ethic-related research for well-behaved agents, and privacy preserving methods on
data.
For the data side, an important research venue is developing privacy-preserving algorithms that
can remove sensitive information from raw data, including speech, visual, language process and
machine learning. This is a recently emerging research direction due to its signiﬁcant social im-
plications since machine learning systems are sometimes adopted into commercial systems. A
challenge for this research direction include the tension between the degree of anonymization vs the
degree of information loss.
On the other hand, for the system/agent side, the ﬁrst important research direction is to develop
robust detection methods to automatically recognize inappropriate behavior, including offensive lan-
guage, misleading information, discrimination against certain populations etc. This requires a joint
effort in the creation of related datasets and shared tasks and the development of machine learning
methods that can solve this challenge. A second direction on the system side is to develop dialog
agents that are resilient to adversarial users. Take the Microsoft Tay as an example. Its self-learning
34

--- Page 35 ---
mechanism from user feedback from real users turned out to be a disaster, i.e. there is a signiﬁ-
cant amount of adversarial input from human users that made Microsoft’s Tay post inﬂammatory
and offensive tweets through its Twitter account, causing Microsoft to shut down the dialog service
only 16 hours after its launch. That said, continuous learning from real interaction data is crucial
for agent behavior, e.g. personalization, reinforcement learning etc, the best solution is to take the
potential adversarial into account when designing future algorithms.
Along with the progress in detecting inappropriate behavior and intelligent agent evaluation
that this report recommends for the next 5-10 years, there will be a need for standardization, i.e. the
development of a ”drivers license” to comprehensively evaluate the quality of an intelligent agent
before it can be deployed in production.
9.5 Research-adjacent recommendations
• Research plans within scientiﬁc proposals should raise and address at least one ethical issue.
• Education of students on ethical issues should be an important topic.
• Develop outreach efforts for increasing public awareness in collaboration with target user
demographics.
• For every NSF/government proposal or grant that includes the release of data, the data should
have a data sheet (Gebru et al., 2018) or similar.
10. Conclusions
Intelligent agents of the future will adapt to the wishes of the user. They will be able to converse
with the user in a large variety of situations, through a wide variety of modalities and in a secure
environment.
The USER Workshop participants recommend that the intelligent agent community attend to
the user in all of its research; that its agents adapt to the individual users style, verbosity, goals and
beliefs.
Research teams should be multidisciplinary, including specialists from domains concerning the
agent itself as well as its potential application.
Intelligent agents must deal with ever-increasingly complex situations including more modali-
ties of interaction, multiparty dialogs, action on physical objects, longer dialogs and more frequent
use by the same users.
The research infrastructure should include open source robust and reusable tools, well-documented
pre-training models and novel machine learning methods that can deal with non-annotated data. All
data collected should be shared freely with the whole community.
The research community must create shared tasks that deﬁne scientiﬁc goals and measure re-
sulting progress. The assessment of intelligent agents should take place within an interactive envi-
ronment. Common research platforms that satisfy these needs should be encouraged.
The intelligent agent and its creators must be good actors, protecting user privacy through the
development of dedicated algorithms and through the automatic detection of inappropriate behavior.
For this, research plans within scientiﬁc proposals should raise and address at least one ethical
issue. Researchers should be encouraged to educate students on ethical issues and to develop public
awareness outreach efforts.
35

--- Page 36 ---
References
Rob Abbott, Brian Ecker, Pranav Anand, and Marilyn Walker. 2016. Internet argument corpus 2.0:
An SQL schema for dialogic social media and the corpora to go with it. In Proceedings of
the Tenth International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC’16) , pages
4445–4452.
Mohammed Abdelwahab and Carlos Busso. 2018. Domain adversarial for acoustic emotion recog-
nition. IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing , 26(12):2423–
2435.
Deepak Agarwal, Bee-Chung Chen, and Bo Pang. 2011. Personalized recommendation of user
comments via factor models. In Proceedings of the Conference on Empirical Methods in Natu-
ral Language Processing, pages 571–582. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Ali Ahmadvand, Ingyu Jason Choi, Harshita Sahijwani, Justus Schmidt, Mingyang Sun, Sergey
V olokhin, Zihao Wang, and Eugene Agichtein. 2018. Emory irisbot: An open-domain conver-
sational bot for personalized information access. Alexa Prize Proceedings.
Hua Ai, Antoine Raux, Dan Bohus, Maxine Eskenazi, and Diane Litman. 2007. Comparing spoken
dialog corpora collected with recruited subjects versus real users. In Proceedings of the 8th
SIGdial Workshop on Discourse and Dialogue, pages 124–131.
Jens Allwood. 1992. Feedback in second language acquisition. rapport nr.: Gothenburg Papers in
Theoretical Linguistics 68.
Zara Ambadar, Jonathan W Schooler, and Jeffrey F Cohn. 2005. Deciphering the enigmatic face:
The importance of facial dynamics in interpreting subtle facial expressions. Psychological sci-
ence, 16(5):403–410.
Ron Artstein, Carla Gordon, Usman Sohail, Chirag Merchant, Andrew Jones, Julia Campbell,
Matthew Trimmer, Jeffrey Bevington, COL Christopher Engen, and David Traum. 2019. Digital
Survivor of Sexual Assault. In Proceedings of the 24th International Conference on Intelligent
User Interfaces, pages 417–425, Marina del Rey, California. ACM.
Bruce Balentine. 2007. It’s Better to Be a Good Machine Than a Bad Person: Speech Recognition
and Other Exotic User Interfaces in the Twilight of the Jetsonian Age. ICMI Press.
Tadas Baltruˇsaitis, Chaitanya Ahuja, and Louis-Philippe Morency. 2018. Multimodal machine
learning: A survey and taxonomy. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine In-
telligence, 41(2):423–443.
Ankur Bapna, Gokhan Tur, Dilek Hakkani-Tur, and Larry Heck. 2017. Towards zero-shot frame
semantic parsing for domain scaling. arXiv preprint arXiv:1707.02363.
Dorit Bar-On. 2017. Communicative intentions, expressive communication, and origins of mean-
ing. In The Routledge Handbook of Philosophy of Animal Minds, pages 301–312. Routledge.
Christina Bennett and Alexander I. Rudnicky. 2002. The Carnegie Mellon COMMUNICATOR
corpus. In Seventh International Conference on Spoken Language Processing.
36

--- Page 37 ---
Alan Black, Maxine Eskenazi, and Reid Simmons. 2002. Elderly perception of speech from a
computer. The Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, 111(5):2433–2433.
Tom Bocklisch, Joey Faulkner, Nick Pawlowski, and Alan Nichol. 2017. Rasa: Open source lan-
guage understanding and dialogue management. arXiv preprint arXiv:1712.05181.
Dan Bohus and Alexander I Rudnicky. 2009. The ravenclaw dialog management framework: Ar-
chitecture and systems. Computer Speech & Language, 23(3):332–361.
Kevin K Bowden, Jiaqi Wu, Wen Cui, Juraj Juraska, Vrindavan Harrison, Brian Schwarzmann, Nick
Santer, and Marilyn Walker. 2019. Slugbot: Developing a computational model andframework
of a novel dialogue genre. arXiv preprint arXiv:1907.10658.
Pierre-Emmanuel Mazare Jason Weston Braden Hancock, Antoine Bordes. 2019. Learning from
dialogue after deployment: Feed yourself, chatbot! arxiv.org/abs/1901.05415.
Greg Brockman, Vicki Cheung, Ludwig Pettersson, Jonas Schneider, John Schulman, Jie Tang, and
Wojciech Zaremba. 2016. Openai gym. arXiv preprint arXiv:1606.01540.
Paweł Budzianowski, Tsung-Hsien Wen, Bo-Hsiang Tseng, I˜nigo Casanueva, Stefan Ultes, Osman
Ramadan, and Milica Ga ˇsi´c. 2018. Multiwoz-a large-scale multi-domain wizard-of-oz dataset
for task-oriented dialogue modelling. arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.00278.
Carlos Busso and Shrikanth S Narayanan. 2007a. Interrelation between speech and facial gestures
in emotional utterances: a single subject study. IEEE Transactions on Audio, Speech, and
Language Processing, 15(8):2331–2347.
Carlos Busso and Shrikanth S Narayanan. 2007b. Joint analysis of the emotional ﬁngerprint in the
face and speech: A single subject study. In 2007 IEEE 9th Workshop on Multimedia Signal
Processing, pages 43–47. IEEE.
L Cailleteau. 2019. Homecare: Supporting independent living with dementia. In Proceedings of the
DiGo, Dialog for good at the Special Interest Group on Discourse and Dialogue (SIGDIAL).
Alexandra Canavan, David Graff, and George Zipperlen. 1997. Callhome american english speech.
Linguistic Data Consortium.
Jean Carletta, Amy Isard, Stephen Isard, Jacqueline C. Kowtko, Gwyneth Doherty-Sneddon, and
Anne H. Anderson. 1997. The reliability of a dialogue structure coding scheme. Computational
Linguistics, 23(1):13–31.
Nicholas Carlini, Chang Liu, ´Ulfar Erlingsson, Jernej Kos, and Dawn Song. 2019. The secret
sharer: Evaluating and testing unintended memorization in neural networks. In 28th {USENIX}
Security Symposium ({USENIX} Security 19), pages 267–284.
Justine Cassell, Tim Bickmore, Lee Campbell, Hannes Vilhjalmsson, and Hao Yan. 2001.
More than just a pretty face: Conversational protocols and the affordances of embodiment.
Knowledge-based systems, 14(1-2):55–64.
37

--- Page 38 ---
Ginevra Castellano, Andr´e Pereira, Iolanda Leite, Ana Paiva, and Peter W McOwan. 2009. Detect-
ing user engagement with a robot companion using task and social interaction-based features.
In Proceedings of the 2009 international conference on Multimodal interfaces, pages 119–126.
ACM.
Caroline Chan, Shiry Ginosar, Tinghui Zhou, and Alexei A Efros. 2019. Everybody dance now. In
Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision, pages 5933–5942.
Wenhu Chen, Jianshu Chen, Pengda Qin, Xifeng Yan, and William Yang Wang. 2019. Seman-
tically conditioned dialog response generation via hierarchical disentangled self-attention. In
Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages
3696–3709, Florence, Italy. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Yun-Nung Chen, Dilek Hakkani-T¨ur, and Xiaodong He. 2016. Zero-shot learning of intent embed-
dings for expansion by convolutional deep structured semantic models. In Acoustics, Speech
and Signal Processing (ICASSP), 2016 IEEE International Conference on , pages 6045–6049.
IEEE.
Hao Cheng, Hao Fang, and Mari Ostendorf. 2019. A dynamic speaker model for conversational
interactions. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the
Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long
and Short Papers), pages 2772–2785.
Eunsol Choi, He He, Mohit Iyyer, Mark Yatskar, Wen-tau Yih, Yejin Choi, Percy Liang, and Luke
Zettlemoyer. 2018. Quac: Question answering in context. arXiv preprint arXiv:1808.07036.
Herbert H Clark and Edward F Schaefer. 1989. Contributing to discourse. Cognitive science ,
13(2):259–294.
Silvia Coradeschi, Amy Loutﬁ, and Britta Wrede. 2013. A short review of symbol grounding in
robotic and intelligent systems. KI-K¨unstliche Intelligenz, 27(2):129–136.
Eric Cosatto and Hans Peter Graf. 2000. Photo-realistic talking-heads from image samples. IEEE
Transactions on multimedia, 2(3):152–163.
David Costa and Carlos Duarte. 2011. Adapting multimodal ﬁssion to users abilities. In Inter-
national Conference on Universal Access in Human-Computer Interaction , pages 347–356.
Springer.
Deborah A. Dahl, Madeleine Bates, Michael Brown, William Fisher, Kate Hunicke-Smith, David
Pallett, Christine Pao, Alexander Rudnicky, and Elizabeth Shriberg. 1994. Expanding the scope
of the ATIS task: The ATIS-3 corpus. In Proceedings of the Workshop on Human Language
Technology, pages 43–48. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Nils Dahlb ¨ack, Arne J ¨onsson, and Lars Ahrenberg. 1993. Wizard of oz studieswhy and how.
Knowledge-based systems, 6(4):258–266.
Abhishek Das, Satwik Kottur, Khushi Gupta, Avi Singh, Deshraj Yadav, Jos ´e MF Moura, Devi
Parikh, and Dhruv Batra. 2017. Visual dialog. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 326–335.
38

--- Page 39 ---
Michael Denkowski and Alon Lavie. 2014. Meteor universal: Language speciﬁc translation eval-
uation for any target language. In Proceedings of the Ninth Workshop on Statistical Machine
Translation, pages 376–380.
Jan Deriu, Alvaro Rodrigo, Arantxa Otegi, Guillermo Echegoyen, Sophie Rosset, Eneko Agirre,
and Mark Cieliebak. 2019. Survey on evaluation methods for dialogue systems. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1905.04071.
David DeVault, Ron Artstein, Grace Benn, Teresa Dey, Edward Fast, Alesia Gainer, Kallirroi
Georgila, Jonathan Gratch, Arno Hartholt, Margaux Lhommet, Gale Lucas, Stacy C. Marsella,
Morbini Fabrizio, Angela Nazarian, Stefan Scherer, Giota Stratou, Apar Suri, David Traum,
Rachel Wood, Yuyu Xu, Albert Rizzo, and Louis-Philippe Morency. 2014. SimSensei Kiosk: A
Virtual Human Interviewer for Healthcare Decision Support. In Proceedings of the 13th Inter-
national Conference on Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems (AAMAS 2014) , pages
1061–1068, Paris, France. International Foundation for Autonomous Agents and Multiagent
Systems.
Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. 2018. Bert: Pre-training of
deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding. arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.04805.
Bhuwan Dhingra, Lihong Li, Xiujun Li, Jianfeng Gao, Yun-Nung Chen, Faisal Ahmed, and
Li Deng. 2016. Towards end-to-end reinforcement learning of dialogue agents for information
access. arXiv preprint arXiv:1609.00777.
Pierre Dillenbourg, David Traum, and Daniel Schneider. 1996. Grounding in multi-modal task-
oriented collaboration. In Proceedings of the European Conference on AI in Education , pages
401–407.
Emily Dinan, Varvara Logacheva, Valentin Malykh, Alexander Miller, Kurt Shuster, Jack Urbanek,
Douwe Kiela, Arthur Szlam, Iulian Serban, Ryan Lowe, Shrimai Prabhumoye, Alan W. Black,
Alexander Rudnicky, Jason Williams, Joelle Pineau, Mikhail Burtsev, and Jason Weston. 2020.
The second conversational intelligence challenge (convai2). In The NeurIPS ’18 Competition,
pages 187–208, Cham. Springer International Publishing.
Kohji Dohsaka and Akira Shimazu. 1997. System architecture for spoken utterance production in
collaborative dialogue. In Working Notes of IJCAI 1997 Workshop on Collaboration, Coopera-
tion and Conﬂict in Dialogue Systems.
Cicero Dos Santos and Maira Gatti. 2014. Deep convolutional neural networks for sentiment anal-
ysis of short texts. In Proceedings of COLING 2014, the 25th International Conference on
Computational Linguistics: Technical Papers, pages 69–78.
Maxine Eskenazi, Shikib Mehri, Evgeniia Razumovskaia, and Tiancheng Zhao. 2019. Beyond
turing: Intelligent agents centered on the user. arXiv preprint arXiv:1901.06613.
Sungmin Eum, Christopher Reale, Heesung Kwon, Claire Bonial, and Clare V oss. 2019. Object and
text-guided semantics for cnn-based activity recognition. In ICASSP 2019-2019 IEEE Interna-
tional Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP) , pages 1458–1462.
IEEE.
39

--- Page 40 ---
Keelan Evanini, Veronika Timpe-Laughlin, Eugene Tsuprun, Ian Blood, Jeremy Lee, James V
Bruno, Vikram Ramanarayanan, Patrick L Lange, and David Suendermann-Oeft. 2018. Game-
based spoken dialog language learning applications for young students. In Interspeech, pages
548–549.
Andrew Fandrianto and Maxine Eskenazi. 2012. Prosodic entrainment in an information-driven
dialog system. In Thirteenth Annual Conference of the International Speech Communication
Association.
Hao Fang, Hao Cheng, Elizabeth Clark, Ariel Holtzman, Maarten Sap, Mari Ostendorf, Yejin Choi,
and Noah A Smith. 2017. Sounding board–university of washingtons alexa prize submission.
Alexa prize proceedings.
Pascale Fung, Anik Dey, Farhad Bin Siddique, Ruixi Lin, Yang Yang, Yan Wan, and Ho Yin Ricky
Chan. 2016. Zara the supergirl: An empathetic personality recognition system. In Proceedings
of the 2016 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational
Linguistics: Demonstrations, pages 87–91.
Michel Galley, Chris Brockett, Alessandro Sordoni, Yangfeng Ji, Michael Auli, Chris Quirk, Mar-
garet Mitchell, Jianfeng Gao, and Bill Dolan. 2015. deltableu: A discriminative metric for
generation tasks with intrinsically diverse targets. arXiv preprint arXiv:1506.06863.
Milica Gasic and Steve Young. 2014. Gaussian processes for pomdp-based dialogue manager opti-
mization. IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing, 22(1):28–40.
Timnit Gebru, Jamie Morgenstern, Briana Vecchione, Jennifer Wortman Vaughan, Hanna Wal-
lach, Hal Daume ´e III, and Kate Crawford. 2018. Datasheets for datasets. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1803.09010.
Felix Gervits and Matthias Scheutz. 2018. Pardon the interruption: Managing turn-taking through
overlap resolution in embodied artiﬁcial agents. In Proceedings of the 19th Annual SIGdial
Meeting on Discourse and Dialogue, pages 99–109.
John J. Godfrey, Edward C. Holliman, and Jane McDaniel. 1992. Switchboard: Telephone speech
corpus for research and development. In ICASSP-92: 1992 IEEE International Conference on
Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, volume 1, pages 517–520. IEEE.
Karthik Gopalakrishnan, Behnam Hedayatnia, Qinlang Chen, Anna Gottardi, Sanjeev Kwatra, Anu
Venkatesh, Raefer Gabriel, Dilek Hakkani-T¨ur, and Amazon Alexa AI. 2019. Topical-chat: To-
wards knowledge-grounded open-domain conversations. Proc. Interspeech 2019, pages 1891–
1895.
Arthur C Graesser, Patrick Chipman, Brian C Haynes, and Andrew Olney. 2005. Autotutor: An
intelligent tutoring system with mixed-initiative dialogue. IEEE Transactions on Education ,
48(4):612–618.
Jonathan Gratch and Stacy Marsella. 2001. Tears and fears: Modeling emotions and emotional be-
haviors in synthetic agents. In Proceedings of the ﬁfth international conference on Autonomous
agents, pages 278–285. ACM.
40

--- Page 41 ---
Jonathan Gratch, Ning Wang, Jillian Gerten, Edward Fast, and Robin Duffy. 2007. Creating rapport
with virtual agents. In International Workshop on Intelligent Virtual Agents , pages 125–138.
Springer.
Prakhar Gupta, Shikib Mehri, Tiancheng Zhao, Amy Pavel, Maxine Eskenazi, and Jeffrey P
Bigham. 2019. Investigating evaluation of open-domain dialogue systems with human gen-
erated multiple references. In Proceedings of the 20th Annual SIGdial Meeting on Discourse
and Dialogue, pages 379–391.
Stevan Harnad. 1990. The symbol grounding problem. Physica D: Nonlinear Phenomena , 42(1-
3):335–346.
Peter Heeman and James Allen. 1995. The TRAINS 93 dialogues. Technical Report TRAINS 94-2,
University of Rochester.
Matthew Henderson, Pawe Budzianowski, Iigo Casanueva, Sam Coope, Daniela Gerz, Girish Ku-
mar, Nikola Mrki, Georgios Spithourakis, Pei-Hao Su, Ivan Vuli, and Tsung-Hsien Wen. 2019.
A repository of conversational datasets.
Matthew Henderson, Blaise Thomson, and Jason D Williams. 2014a. The second dialog state track-
ing challenge. In Proceedings of the 15th Annual Meeting of the Special Interest Group on
Discourse and Dialogue (SIGDIAL), pages 263–272.
Matthew Henderson, Blaise Thomson, and Jason D Williams. 2014b. The third dialog state tracking
challenge. In 2014 IEEE Spoken Language Technology Workshop (SLT), pages 324–329. IEEE.
Sepp Hochreiter and J ¨urgen Schmidhuber. 1997. Long short-term memory. Neural computation,
9(8):1735–1780.
Eduard Hovy. 1987. Generating natural language under pragmatic constraints. Journal of Pragmat-
ics, 11(6):689–719.
THK Huang. 2018. A Crowd-Powered Conversational Assistant That Automates Itself Over Time.
Ph.D. thesis, Ph. D. Dissertation, Carnegie Mellon University.
Akira Ito, Shunsuke Hayakawa, and Tazunori Terada. 2004. Why robots need body for mind
communication-an attempt of eye-contact between human and robot. In RO-MAN 2004. 13th
IEEE International Workshop on Robot and Human Interactive Communication (IEEE Catalog
No. 04TH8759), pages 473–478. IEEE.
Patrick Kenny, Thomas D Parsons, Jonathan Gratch, Anton Leuski, and Albert A Rizzo. 2007.
Virtual patients for clinical therapist skills training. In International Workshop on Intelligent
Virtual Agents, pages 197–210. Springer.
Cynthia Kersey, Barbara Di Eugenio, Pamela Jordan, and Sandra Katz. 2009. Ksc-pal: A peer
learning agent that encourages students to take the initiative. In Proceedings of the Fourth
Workshop on Innovative Use of NLP for Building Educational Applications, pages 55–63.
Yelin Kim and Emily Mower Provost. 2014. Say cheese vs. smile: Reducing speech-related vari-
ability for facial emotion recognition. InProceedings of the 22nd ACM international conference
on Multimedia, pages 27–36. ACM.
41

--- Page 42 ---
Ryan Kiros, Yukun Zhu, Ruslan R Salakhutdinov, Richard Zemel, Raquel Urtasun, Antonio Tor-
ralba, and Sanja Fidler. 2015. Skip-thought vectors. In Advances in neural information pro-
cessing systems, pages 3294–3302.
Satwik Kottur, Jos ´e MF Moura, Devi Parikh, Dhruv Batra, and Marcus Rohrbach. 2019. Clevr-
dialog: A diagnostic dataset for multi-round reasoning in visual dialog. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1903.03166.
Rohit Kumar and Carolyn P Ros´e. 2014. Triggering effective social support for online groups.ACM
Transactions on Interactive Intelligent Systems (TiiS), 3(4):24.
Rohit Kumar, Carolyn Penstein Ros ´e, Yi-Chia Wang, Mahesh Joshi, and Allen Robinson. 2007.
Tutorial dialogue as adaptive collaborative learning support. Frontiers in artiﬁcial intelligence
and applications, 158:383.
Staffan Larsson and David R Traum. 2000. Information state and dialogue management in the trindi
dialogue move engine toolkit. Natural language engineering, 6(3-4):323–340.
Walter S Lasecki, Young Chol Song, Henry Kautz, and Jeffrey P Bigham. 2013. Real-time crowd
labeling for deployable activity recognition. In Proceedings of the 2013 conference on Com-
puter supported cooperative work, pages 1203–1212. ACM.
Kai Fu Lee. 2019. interview on 60 minutes on january 13, 2019.
Kyusong Lee, Tiancheng Zhao, Yulun Du, Edward Cai, Allen Lu, Eli Pincus, David Traum, Stefan
Ultes, Lina M. Rojas-Barahona, Milica Gasic, Steve Young, and Maxine Eskenazi. 2017. Di-
alPort, gone live: An update after a year of development. In Proceedings of the 18th Annual
SIGdial Meeting on Discourse and Dialogue, pages 170–173, Saarbr¨ucken, Germany. Associa-
tion for Computational Linguistics.
Jiwei Li, Michel Galley, Chris Brockett, Jianfeng Gao, and Bill Dolan. 2015. A diversity-promoting
objective function for neural conversation models. arXiv preprint arXiv:1510.03055.
Jiwei Li, Michel Galley, Chris Brockett, Georgios P Spithourakis, Jianfeng Gao, and Bill Dolan.
2016. A persona-based neural conversation model. arXiv preprint arXiv:1603.06155.
Jiwei Li, Will Monroe, Tianlin Shi, S ´ebastien Jean, Alan Ritter, and Dan Jurafsky. 2017a. Adver-
sarial learning for neural dialogue generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:1701.06547.
Yanran Li, Hui Su, Xiaoyu Shen, Wenjie Li, Ziqiang Cao, and Shuzi Niu. 2017b. Dailydialog: A
manually labelled multi-turn dialogue dataset. arXiv preprint arXiv:1710.03957.
Chin-Yew Lin. 2004. Rouge: A package for automatic evaluation of summaries. Text Summariza-
tion Branches Out.
Zhaojiang Lin, Andrea Madotto, Jamin Shin, Peng Xu, and Pascale Fung. 2019. Moel: Mixture of
empathetic listeners. arXiv preprint arXiv:1908.07687.
Pierre Lison and Casey Kennington. 2016. Opendial: A toolkit for developing spoken dialogue
systems with probabilistic rules. In Proceedings of ACL-2016 System Demonstrations , pages
67–72.
42

--- Page 43 ---
Diane Litman and Katherine Forbes-Riley. 2014. Evaluating a spoken dialogue system that detects
and adapts to user affective states. In Proceedings of the 15th Annual Meeting of the Special
Interest Group on Discourse and Dialogue (SIGDIAL), pages 181–185.
Diane Litman, Steve Young, Mark Gales, Kate Knill, Karen Ottewell, Rogier van Dalen, and David
Vandyke. 2016. Towards using conversations with spoken dialogue systems in the automated
assessment of non-native speakers of english. In Proceedings of the 17th Annual Meeting of the
Special Interest Group on Discourse and Dialogue, pages 270–275.
Chia-Wei Liu, Ryan Lowe, Iulian V Serban, Michael Noseworthy, Laurent Charlin, and Joelle
Pineau. 2016. How not to evaluate your dialogue system: An empirical study of unsupervised
evaluation metrics for dialogue response generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:1603.08023.
Yinhan Liu, Myle Ott, Naman Goyal, Jingfei Du, Mandar Joshi, Danqi Chen, Omer Levy, Mike
Lewis, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Veselin Stoyanov. 2019. Roberta: A robustly optimized bert
pretraining approach. arXiv preprint arXiv:1907.11692.
Jos´e Lopes, Maxine Eskenazi, and Isabel Trancoso. 2013. Automated two-way entrainment to im-
prove spoken dialog system performance. In 2013 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics,
Speech and Signal Processing, pages 8372–8376. IEEE.
Ryan Lowe, Michael Noseworthy, Iulian Vlad Serban, Nicolas Angelard-Gontier, Yoshua Bengio,
and Joelle Pineau. 2017. Towards an automatic turing test: Learning to evaluate dialogue re-
sponses. In Proceedings of the 55th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), volume 1, pages 1116–1126.
Ryan Lowe, Nissan Pow, Iulian Serban, and Joelle Pineau. 2015. The ubuntu dialogue cor-
pus: A large dataset for research in unstructured multi-turn dialogue systems. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1506.08909.
Nichola Lubold, Erin Walker, Heather Pon-Barry, and Amy Ogan. 2018. Automated pitch con-
vergence improves learning in a social, teachable robot for middle school mathematics. In
International Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence in Education, pages 282–296. Springer.
Gale M Lucas, Jonathan Gratch, Aisha King, and Louis-Philippe Morency. 2014. Its only a com-
puter: Virtual humans increase willingness to disclose. Computers in Human Behavior, 37:94–
100.
Petros Maragos, Alexandros Potamianos, and Patrick Gros. 2008. Multimodal processing and in-
teraction: audio, video, text, volume 33. Springer Science & Business Media.
Soroosh Mariooryad and Carlos Busso. 2015. Facial expression recognition in the presence of
speech using blind lexical compensation. IEEE Transactions on Affective Computing, 7(4):346–
359.
Dominic W Massaro. 2003. A computer-animated tutor for spoken and written language learning.
In Proceedings of the 5th international conference on Multimodal interfaces , pages 172–175.
ACM.
43

--- Page 44 ---
Gregor Mehlmann, Markus H¨aring, Kathrin Janowski, Tobias Baur, Patrick Gebhard, and Elisabeth
Andr´e. 2014. Exploring a model of gaze for grounding in multimodal hri. In Proceedings of
the 16th International Conference on Multimodal Interaction, pages 247–254. ACM.
Shikib Mehri, Alan W Black, and Maxine Eskenazi. 2019a. Cmu getgoing: An understandable and
memorable dialog system for seniors. In Proceedings of the 20th Annual SIGdial Meeting on
Discourse and Dialogue.
Shikib Mehri, Tejas Srinivasan, and Maxine Eskenazi. 2019b. Structured fusion networks for di-
alog. In Proceedings of the 20th Annual SIGdial Meeting on Discourse and Dialogue , pages
165–177.
Alexander H Miller, Will Feng, Adam Fisch, Jiasen Lu, Dhruv Batra, Antoine Bordes, Devi
Parikh, and Jason Weston. 2017. Parlai: A dialog research software platform. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1705.06476.
Shachar Mirkin, Scott Nowson, Caroline Brun, and Julien Perez. 2015. Motivating personality-
aware machine translation. In Proceedings of the 2015 Conference on Empirical Methods in
Natural Language Processing, pages 1102–1108.
Johanna D Moore and C´ecile L Paris. 1992. Exploiting user feedback to compensate for the unreli-
ability of user models. User Modeling and User-Adapted Interaction, 2(4):287–330.
Roger K Moore. 2012. A bayesian explanation of the uncanny valleyeffect and related psychologi-
cal phenomena. Scientiﬁc reports, 2:864.
Roger K Moore. 2017. Is spoken language all-or-nothing? is spoken language all-or-nothing?
implications for future speech-based human-machine interaction.Dialogues with Social Robots.
Masahiro Mori, Karl F MacDorman, and Norri Kageki. 2012. The uncanny valley [from the ﬁeld].
IEEE Robotics & Automation Magazine, 19(2):98–100.
Cosmin Munteanu and Marian Boldea. 2000. Mdwoz: A wizard of oz environment for dialog
systems development. In LREC. Citeseer.
Deepak Muralidharan, Justine Kao, Xiao Yang, Lin Li, Lavanya Viswanathan, Mubarak Seyed
Ibrahim, Kevin Luikens, Stephen Pulman, Ashish Garg, Atish Kothari, et al. 2018. Leveraging
user engagement signals for entity labeling in a virtual assistant.
Courtney Napoles, Joel Tetreault, Aasish Pappu, Enrica Rosato, and Brian Provenzale. 2017. Find-
ing good conversations online: The yahoo news annotated comments corpus. In Proceedings of
the 11th Linguistic Annotation Workshop (LAW XI), EACL, pages 13–23.
Shrikanth Narayanan and Panayiotis G Georgiou. 2013. Behavioral signal processing: Deriving hu-
man behavioral informatics from speech and language. Proceedings of the IEEE, 101(5):1203–
1233.
Daniel Neiberg, Giampiero Salvi, and Joakim Gustafson. 2013. Semi-supervised methods for ex-
ploring the acoustics of simple productive feedback. Speech Communication, 55(3):451–469.
44

--- Page 45 ---
Victor Ng-Thow-Hing, Pengcheng Luo, and Sandra Okita. 2010. Synchronized gesture and speech
production for humanoid robots. In 2010 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent
Robots and Systems, pages 4617–4624. IEEE.
Zeljko Obrenovic, Julio Abascal, and Dusan Starcevic. 2007. Universal accessibility as a multi-
modal design issue. Communications of the ACM, 50(5):83–88.
Masayuki Okamoto, Yeonsoo Yang, and Toru Ishida. 2001. Wizard of oz method for learning dialog
agents. In International Workshop on Cooperative Information Agents, pages 20–25. Springer.
Sharon Oviatt and Philip R Cohen. 2015. The paradigm shift to multimodality in contemporary
computer interfaces. Synthesis Lectures On Human-Centered Informatics, 8(3):1–243.
Sharon L Oviatt and Philip R Cohen. 1992. Spoken language in interpreted telephone dialogues.
Computer Speech & Language, 6(3):277–302.
Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and Wei-Jing Zhu. 2002. Bleu: a method for auto-
matic evaluation of machine translation. In Proceedings of 40th Annual Meeting of the Associa-
tion for Computational Linguistics, pages 311–318. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Srinivas Parthasarathy and Carlos Busso. 2019. Semi-supervised speech emotion recognition with
ladder networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1905.02921.
Christopher Peters, Ginevra Castellano, and Sara de Freitas. 2009. An exploration of user engage-
ment in hci. In Proceedings of the International Workshop on Affective-Aware Virtual Agents
and Social Robots, page 9. ACM.
Mike Phillips. 2006. Applications of spoken language technology and systems. In 2006 IEEE
Spoken Language Technology Workshop, pages 7–7. IEEE.
Rosalind W Picard. 2000. Affective computing. MIT press.
Paul Piwek, Hugo Hernault, Helmut Prendinger, and Mitsuru Ishizuka. 2007. T2d: Generating dia-
logues between virtual agents automatically from text. In International Workshop on Intelligent
Virtual Agents, pages 161–174. Springer.
Ashwin Ram, Rohit Prasad, Chandra Khatri, Anu Venkatesh, Raefer Gabriel, Qing Liu, Jeff Nunn,
Behnam Hedayatnia, Ming Cheng, Ashish Nagar, Eric King, Kate Bland, Amanda Wartick,
Yi Pan, Han Song, Sk Jayadevan, Gene Hwang, and Art Pettigrue. 2018. Conversational ai:
The science behind the alexa prize.
Vikram Ramanarayanan, David Pautler, Patrick L Lange, Eugene Tsuprun, Rutuja Ubale, Keelan
Evanini, and David Suendermann-Oeft. 2018. Toward scalable dialog technology for conversa-
tional language learning: Case study of the toeﬂ R⃝ mooc. In Interspeech, pages 1960–1961.
Antoine Raux, Brian Langner, Dan Bohus, Alan W. Black, and Maxine Eskenazi. 2005. Let’s go
public! taking a spoken dialog system to the real world. In Ninth European Conference on
Speech Communication and Technology.
Evgeniia Razumovskaia and Maxine Eskenazi. 2019. Incorporating rules into end-to-end dialog
systems. In 3rd Conversational AI Workshop.
45

--- Page 46 ---
Siva Reddy, Danqi Chen, and Christopher D Manning. 2019. Coqa: A conversational question
answering challenge. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics , 7:249–
266.
Verena Rieser and Oliver Lemon. 2008. Learning effective multimodal dialogue strategies from
wizard-of-oz data: Bootstrapping and evaluation. In Proceedings of ACL-08: HLT, pages 638–
646.
Albert Rizzo, Russell Shilling, Eric Forbell, Stefan Scherer, Jonathan Gratch, and Louis-Philippe
Morency. 2016. Autonomous virtual human agents for healthcare information support and clin-
ical interviewing. In Artiﬁcial intelligence in behavioral and mental health care, pages 53–79.
Elsevier.
Vasile Rus and Mihai Lintean. 2012. A comparison of greedy and optimal assessment of natural
language student input using word-to-word similarity metrics. In Proceedings of the Seventh
Workshop on Building Educational Applications Using NLP , pages 157–162. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Stefan Scherer, Giota Stratou, Gale Lucas, Marwa Mahmoud, Jill Boberg, Jonathan Gratch, Al-
bert (Skip) Rizzo, and Louis-Philippe Morency. 2014. Automatic audiovisual behavior descrip-
tors for psychological disorder analysis. Image and Vision Computing, 32(10):648 – 658. Best
of Automatic Face and Gesture Recognition 2013.
Thom Scott-Phillips. 2014. Speaking Our Minds: Why human communication is different, and how
language evolved to make it special. Macmillan International Higher Education.
Iulian Vlad Serban, Ryan Lowe, Peter Henderson, Laurent Charlin, and Joelle Pineau. 2018. A
survey of available corpora for building data-driven dialogue systems: The journal version.
Dialogue & Discourse, 9(1):1–49.
Aliaksei Severyn and Alessandro Moschitti. 2015. Twitter sentiment analysis with deep convolu-
tional neural networks. In Proceedings of the 38th International ACM SIGIR Conference on
Research and Development in Information Retrieval, pages 959–962. ACM.
Pararth Shah, Dilek Hakkani-Tur, and Larry Heck. 2016. Interactive reinforcement learning for
task-oriented dialogue management.
Alessandro Sordoni, Michel Galley, Michael Auli, Chris Brockett, Yangfeng Ji, Margaret Mitchell,
Jian-Yun Nie, Jianfeng Gao, and William B. Dolan. 2015. A neural network approach to
context-sensitive generation of conversational responses. In HLT-NAACL.
Svetlana Stoyanchev and Amanda Stent. 2009. Lexical and syntactic priming and their impact
in deployed spoken dialog systems. In Proceedings of Human Language Technologies: The
2009 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational
Linguistics, Companion Volume: Short Papers, pages 189–192. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Ananya Subburathinam, Di Lu, Heng Ji, Jonathan May, Shih-Fu Chang, Avirup Sil, and Clare V oss.
2019. Cross-lingual structure transfer for relation and event extraction. In Proceedings of the
46

--- Page 47 ---
2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th Interna-
tional Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP), pages 313–325.
Kai Sun, Lu Chen, Su Zhu, and Kai Yu. 2014. A generalized rule based tracker for dialogue state
tracking. In 2014 IEEE Spoken Language Technology Workshop (SLT), pages 330–335. IEEE.
Supasorn Suwajanakorn, Steven M Seitz, and Ira Kemelmacher-Shlizerman. 2017. Synthesizing
obama: learning lip sync from audio. ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG), 36(4):95.
Kenta Takeuchi, Dai Hasegawa, Shinichi Shirakawa, Naoshi Kaneko, Hiroshi Sakuta, and Kazuhiko
Sumi. 2017. Speech-to-gesture generation: A challenge in deep learning approach with bi-
directional lstm. In Proceedings of the 5th International Conference on Human Agent Interac-
tion, pages 365–369. ACM.
Kojima Takumi, Iida Takuya, Teranishi Daina, and Masahiro Araki. 2019. Three-party interactive
tutoring system for mastering machine learning. In Proceedings of the DiGo, Dialog for good
at the Special Interest Group on Discourse and Dialogue (SIGDIAL).
Zong Xuan Tan, Arushi Goel, Thanh-Son Nguyen, and Desmond C Ong. 2018. A multimodal lstm
for predicting listener empathic responses over time. arXiv preprint arXiv:1812.04891.
Ant´onio JS Teixeira, Carlos Pereira, Miguel Oliveira e Silva, Joaquim Alvarelh ˜ao, Ant ´onio JR
Neves, and Osvaldo Pacheco. 2011. Output matters! adaptable multimodal output for new
telerehabilitation services for the elderly. In AAL, pages 23–35.
J¨org Tiedemann. 2012. Parallel data, tools and interfaces in opus. In Lrec, volume 2012, pages
2214–2218.
David Traum. 2008. Talking to virtual humans: Dialogue models and methodologies for embodied
conversational agents. In Modeling Communication with Robots and Virtual Humans , pages
296–309. Springer.
AM Turing. 1950. Computing machinery and intelligence. Mind, LIX:433–460.
Matthew Turk. 2014. Multimodal interaction: A review. Pattern Recognition Letters, 36:189–195.
Alexandria K Vail, Elizabeth Liebson, Justin T Baker, and Louis-Philippe Morency. 2018. Toward
objective, multifaceted characterization of psychotic disorders: lexical, structural, and disﬂu-
ency markers of spoken language. In Proceedings of the 2018 on International Conference on
Multimodal Interaction, pages 170–178. ACM.
V . Venek, S. Scherer, L. Morency, A. . Rizzo, and J. Pestian. 2017. Adolescent suicidal risk assess-
ment in clinician-patient interaction. IEEE Transactions on Affective Computing, 8(2):204–215.
Roel Vertegaal, Robert Slagter, Gerrit Van der Veer, and Anton Nijholt. 2001. Eye gaze patterns in
conversations: there is more to conversational agents than meets the eyes. InProceedings of the
SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems, pages 301–308. ACM.
Alessandro Vinciarelli, Maja Pantic, and Herv ´e Bourlard. 2009. Social signal processing: Survey
of an emerging domain. Image and vision computing, 27(12):1743–1759.
47

--- Page 48 ---
Oriol Vinyals and Quoc Le. 2015. A neural conversational model. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1506.05869.
Svitlana V olkova, Theresa Wilson, and David Yarowsky. 2013. Exploring demographic language
variations to improve multilingual sentiment analysis in social media. In Proceedings of the
2013 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 1815–1827.
Wolfgang Wahlster. 2013. Verbmobil: foundations of speech-to-speech translation . Springer Sci-
ence & Business Media.
Marilyn Walker, John Aberdeen, Julie Boland, Elizabeth Bratt, John Garofolo, Lynette Hirschman,
Audrey Le, Sungbok Lee, Shrikanth Narayanan, K. Papineni, Bryan Pellom, Joseph Polifroni,
Alexandros Potamianos, P. Prabhu, Alexander Rudnicky, Gregory Sanders, Stephanie Seneff,
David Stallard, and Steve Whittaker. 2001. Darpa communicator dialog travel planning systems:
the june 2000 data collection. pages 1371–1374.
Marilyn A Walker, Diane J Litman, Candace A Kamm, and Alicia Abella. 1997. Paradise: A
framework for evaluating spoken dialogue agents. arXiv preprint cmp-lg/9704004.
Zhuoran Wang and Oliver Lemon. 2013. A simple and generic belief tracking mechanism for the
dialog state tracking challenge: On the believability of observed information. In Proceedings of
the SIGDIAL 2013 Conference, pages 423–432.
Tsung-Hsien Wen, Milica Gasic, Nikola Mrksic, Lina M Rojas-Barahona, Pei-Hao Su, David
Vandyke, and Steve Young. 2016. Multi-domain neural network language generation for spoken
dialogue systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:1603.01232.
Jason D Williams, Kavosh Asadi, and Geoffrey Zweig. 2017. Hybrid code networks: practical and
efﬁcient end-to-end dialog control with supervised and reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1702.03274.
Kelvin Xu, Jimmy Ba, Ryan Kiros, Kyunghyun Cho, Aaron Courville, Ruslan Salakhudinov, Rich
Zemel, and Yoshua Bengio. 2015. Show, attend and tell: Neural image caption generation with
visual attention. In International conference on machine learning, pages 2048–2057.
Saizheng Zhang, Emily Dinan, Jack Urbanek, Arthur Szlam, Douwe Kiela, and Jason Weston.
2018. Personalizing dialogue agents: I have a dog, do you have pets too? arXiv preprint
arXiv:1801.07243.
Tiancheng Zhao. 2016. Reinforest: Multi-domain dialogue management using hierarchical policies
and knowledge ontology. Technical report, Technical Report. 4. 2.1, 5.1. 3.
Tiancheng Zhao and Maxine Eskenazi. 2016. Towards end-to-end learning for dialog state tracking
and management using deep reinforcement learning. InProceedings of the 17th Annual Meeting
of the Special Interest Group on Discourse and Dialogue, pages 1–10.
Tiancheng Zhao and Maxine Eskenazi. 2018. Zero-shot dialog generation with cross-domain latent
actions. In Proceedings of the 19th Annual SIGdial Meeting on Discourse and Dialogue, pages
1–10.
48

--- Page 49 ---
Tiancheng Zhao, Ran Zhao, and Maxine Eskenazi. 2017. Learning discourse-level diversity for
neural dialog models using conditional variational autoencoders. In Proceedings of the 55th
Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) ,
pages 654–664.
Zian Zhao, Michael Madaio, Florian Pecune, Yoichi Matsuyama, and Justine Cassell. 2018.
Socially-conditioned task reasoning for a virtual tutoring agent. In Proceedings of the 17th
International Conference on Autonomous Agents and MultiAgent Systems , pages 2265–2267.
International Foundation for Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems.
Ingrid Zukerman and Diane Litman. 2001. Natural language processing and user modeling: Syner-
gies and limitations. User modeling and user-adapted interaction, 11(1-2):129–158.
49